birth.Be reassured that some women wait until a little further along, in case of an early miscarriage.
If this is a concern for you consider waiting until after the first three months, when the rate of miscarriages drops.
Inform others if this is your style.
Some women call everyone they know the minute they find out they're pregnant.
Some women feel that in an event of a pregnancy loss, they'll cope better with informed friends and family to support them.
Tell your partner first, then decide who else to tell.
Do you want your coworkers to know about your pregnancy?
How about your friends from high school?
Grandma and Grandpa?
Be careful who you tell, and in what order.
Remember this is your partner's child, too . With rising home pregnancy test usage, your partner may have been there with you, holding your hand and waiting for the results.
If your husband, boyfriend, or partner doesn't know yet, consider more than just "Hey, I'm pregnant."
This is an exciting and special moment, one the both of you will remember forever!
If this is an unexpected and possibly undesired pregnancy, be as calm as possible and allow the other person time to digest the news.
The first reaction is not always indicative of the true feelings.
Choose a creative way to share your news.
If you don't want to just come right out and tell people that you are pregnant, use a special way to tell those you love.
You could create a beautiful memory.
Make a romantic dinner for the two of you.
While your partner is expecting a four-course meal, you'll serve baby-esque food: baby -backed ribs , baby carrots, and baby's apple juice served in little sippy cups.
For dessert, serve baby teething cookies.
Have a movie night and rent baby-related movies : Nine Months , Junior , Baby's Day Out , etc. Write your good news on a piece of paper and place it inside a DVD or VHS case.
Choose the first movie not the one with the note.
When the movie ends, get up to go the bathroom and tell your partner to put in the movie you selected.
Wait for your partner to read the note.
Come out of the bathroom, smiling and saying, "It's true!"
Wait for a holiday and literally "give" your partner the news.
Buy a t-shirt with DADDY or #1 MOM written on it, a baby-related keychain, a baby book, as well as a few baby items, and put them in a gift bag.
Cover with tissue paper and then have your partner open it.
Run your partner a bath, adding lots of bubbles.
Write a sweet letter announcing the news, wrap it in a plastic baggie, and pop it into a baby bottle.
Hide the baby bottle under the bath bubbles.
When your partner gets into the bath they'll feel something, find the bottle and read the note.
Play Scrabble . Do your best to choose only words that are baby-related.
Take a shower together.
Write "Baby On Board" on your belly in washable marker and allow your partner to get in the shower first.
Either climb in behind them or be there waiting when they get out.
Order a cake from a bakery . Request that Congratulations on Your Pregnancy to be written on it.
Then ask your partner to pick the cake up for you and bring it home because you're too busy to go yourself.
Then, when they ask who it's for, tell them, "Us!
We're going to be parents!"
Send a card with the good news, chosen name, and a copy of the sonogram.
This depends how far along you are, of course.
Otherwise you could just take a picture of you and your partner and include that, with or without your proud belly showing.
Have a backyard BBQ . While everyone is eating, stand up and make a toast.
Say, "We just want to thank everyone for coming here today.
It means a lot for us to have our friends here.
By the way, we're having a baby.
So, who wants dessert?"
Everyone will burst out laughing, ask if you're serious, and then celebrate!
Leave a baby name book out somewhere around the house.
Gather everyone together to take a group photo.
Take the first picture, asking them to "Say Cheese!"
Then, for the second photo, say, "Everyone say, Lucy's pregnant!"
Take a quick snapshot--you'll get a great, stunned look on everyone's faces.