here.Determine what purpose the space the furniture occupies has and the purpose of each piece of furniture.
This will have an effect on how space might be divided up and furniture arranged.
Some furniture may not belong in a given space.
Primary Conversation Area:
8-12 feet in diameter is ideal
Seats-6 people
Secondary Conversation Area:
Seating for just-3 people
Dining Area:
Allowfeet from the table edge for the person to be seated at the table and room behind for traffic.
Each person is allowed a minimum ofinches of seating room at the table.
Measure the room and write down its dimensions.
Do the same for your furniture.
Make a flat scale drawing of the room using graph paper as if seen from above.
(For example: 1 little square represents one quarter of a square foot [3"] and four of those equal one square foot.)
You may want to shade the floor close to what is already there (beige if the carpet is beige) if there is a need to coordinate colors just make sure you can see the lines on your graph paper.
Draw flat scale drawings of your furniture as if seen from above.
Don't get too detailed.
At the very least you need the size and shape in relation to the room; Color the piece if you think it's important and then label it.
Consider the following traffic flow / spacing guidelines :
Spaces that need 36"-6' clearance:
Hallways
In front of clothes closets, dressers and chests of drawers
Any route wherepeople might pass each other
In front of stove, refrigerator, sink, washer and dryer areas
From the edge of a dining room table to a wall or stationary object.
Sides of bed you get in
' or more for stairways.
Spaces that need"-4'clearance:
Sides of beds used only for making the bed
Between sofas & coffee tables
" in routes where only one person will walk such as in front of tubs or through doorways.
There should be at least" of clearance in front of the bath tub, shower, toilet and/or sink.
Take your scale drawing of the room's floor plan and rearrange the scale drawn pieces of furniture on it until you see a configuration you like and think works best for the space and furniture's purposes and traffic flow.
Tape the pieces down with small pieces of tape (so that you can easily move them if you change your mind) and begin preparing to move your furniture into that configuration.
You have two options for moving the furniture :
Move everything out of the room; or
Move pieces little by little.
Move the first piece to where you want it to go, and keep going from there.
Move all the things outside your door back into your room.