family.Plan ahead.
Find out the ages of all the kids you will be babysitting.
Bring games and toys that would suit that age level.
If you are babysitting a very young child and an older child, bring things that they both might enjoy, or simply bring things for each of them.
Think about games and activities that are good for multiple kids to do.
Get to know the kids.
When you first arrive, introduce yourself to all of the kids.
It may take a while for them to warm up to you, but that's normal.
Spend time getting to know each child before the parents leave.
Find out about an older child's hobbies.
Let a younger child show you his or her room, and play with a toddler for a minute.
Do not pick favorites.
Thinking That baby is the cutest!
or That s a really smart boy!
Is okay, but don t favor one child over another.
The kids will feel left out, jealous, and hurt.
Think Safety First.
As a babysitter, it is your job to keep the kids and yourself safe.
Remember that what is safe for an older child to do isn't always safe for a toddler.
You are caring for more than one child and you must be responsible for all of them.
Clean up an older child's small toys if a baby could choke on them.
Plan a game that is safe for everyone to do.
If there's a baby you are caring for, and you want to play a game with the other kids, remember that you must still be able to care for the younger child as well.
Play together.
After finding out what the kids enjoy doing, arrange a game or activity that everyone can enjoy together.
For example, a 10 year old and 5 year old may not agree on a game to play, but they might both enjoy doing a craft.
Remember to include everyone.
Even if you can t agree on a game to play together, you should still give each child attention.
Be aware that even a small thing could cause another child to feel jealous or left out.
Help the kids get along.
It is not uncommon for siblings to argue.
If kids being to argue, first you must determine what is causing the problem.
Are they picking on each other?
Are they fighting over a toy?
Are they arguing over which game to play?
Maybe they want your attention.
Let the kids know they need to treat each other nicely, share the toy, or take turns playing games, depending on what they are arguing about.
Try to distract them from their arguments.
If a fight breaks out, break it up.
If the kids can t seem to stop arguing, you need to stop the fighting.
If the kids are picking on each other or using the He did it!
She did it!
You may want to try this method.
Sit the kids down and allow them each a minute to share their side of the story.
Tell them that they cannot interrupt each other.
Once the kids share what s on their minds, help the kids work out an agreement.
Be firm but fair.
Tell the kids they need to get along, follow the rules, and be nice to each other.
Let them work out an agreement together, but make sure it is fair.
If the kids are arguing over a toy, or certain activity to do, first tell them that they will share and take turns and they will both get their turn.
Have them play rock-paper-scissors to decide who goes first.
If the kids still won t take turns, neither of them gets the toy.
Instead, offer a different option they can both do together.
Just remember to stay calm.
You are in charge and the kids need to listen to you.
However, don t yell or use a rude tone.
You want everyone to have fun, but get along and be safe.