fester.Clothes : Massie shops at stores like Marc Jacobs, Chanel, Juicy, Armani, Ralph Lauren, Louis Vuitton, Fendi, Prada, DKNY, BCBG max azria, Gucci, Tiffany& co. , and so on.
(If you read the books you can find out more brands.)
Even if you can't afford a full-on designer wardrobe like Massie's, you can still buy nice expensive-looking clothes at stores like, Forever 21, H&M, Marshall's, and TJMaxx.
Just make sure you always look well put together, and in-style wherever you go.
You can look up hot trends in Magazines like Teen-Vouge or even online.
Your Clique : Get either 3-5 girls (NO MORE THAN 5) and create a fab clique like Massie's.
You will be the alpha of course.
Betas get jealous sometimes (like Alicia) and will try to start a clique of there own, so make sure you always keep your clique happy to be in your clique.
As an alpha you need to be in charge and let your betas know that you are, and always will be in charge.
Get creative with your clique and don't call it "the Clique" This will make you ALL look like Lbr's.
Especially you if you are the alpha.
Hygiene : Massie has really good hygiene.
Her breath is always fresh and she has a lazer-whitened smile.
But you don't have to get your teeth bleached or proffesionally whitened.
Just use Crest Whitening Strips, which you can buy usually at any local store.
Be sure to carry mints and sugar-free mint gum with you all the time.
You always want fresh breath because smelly breath really turns people off and does NOT make a good impression.
Massie also showers twice a day and wears deodorant too.
Always be clean, and smell nice.
Make-up : Massie wears full-on makeup.
She wears eye-liner, Mascara, Concealer, blush, eyeshadow, and lipgloss of course!
If you cannot afford brands like MAC or Sephora, just buy a cheap- but high quality lipgloss from a near by department store.
Just make sure it looks good on you!
And if you are not allowed to wear make-up yet, but still have some in your room, sneak it nonchalantly in a paper bag (to look casual and not suspicious) and put it on on the bus, at your locker, or in the school bathroom.
Wear natural make-up just to enhance your inner beauty.
But don't be afraid to experiment and try new things too.
This will set trends for people which makes you an awesome alpha.
Eyebrows : Massie has super perfect eyebrows.
They are perfectly shaped and have a precise arch.
You could pluck them or get them waxed.
Just make sure you do them evenly if you plan to pluck or wax them by yourself.
Nobody wants to walk around with crooked eyebrows.
That will not make you the well-respected alpha that you want to be.
4 Hair : Hair is what is most important.
Massie has shoulder-length chesnut-brown hair.
It always looks great because she uses Bumble and Bumble shampoo and conditioner.
But if you can't afford that there are always brands like Biolage, Garnier, John Freida, or Herbal Essence that works just as well.
Don't worry, even if you can't afford all of the stuff Massie can, that doesn't mean you won't look good.
I suggest if you want shinier hair or more body, that you wash your hair normally with cold water and let it air dry.
This will give you good results.
If you plan on straightening or curling your hair, I also suggest that you don't use a blow-dryer right before.
Too much heat in a short period of time can do serious damage to your hair.
But whatever style you do, make sure it is fun, fabulous, and YOU!
Jewelry : Always haves your jewelry make a statement.
Jewelry completes an outfit and you WANT people to notice it.
Massie buys a lot of her jewelry from Tiffany& co. but if you can't afford it, there are cheaper stores like Kay, Jared, or Zales.
Massie has a signature gold charm bracelet.
I suggest either buying a charm bracelet or having a signature piece of jewelry that you wear all of the time.
But I don't recommend your signature piece of jewelry be a necklace because you DO NOT want to wear the same necklace everyday.
Bag : Buy or save up Money to buy a designer purse.
You can buy a Prada, or a Louis Vuitton, but if you really can't afford that... get a knock-off.
(Shh!)
Just don't tell anybody or else you'll be called a fake.
DO NOT let that happen.
Make sure your bag is big.
Carry your life in there.
Carry things like your phone, palm pilot or any organizer, mints/gum, a make-up bag full of your favorite make-up, emergency "." kit (I know some of you may be far away from it but keep it in there just in case.)A wallet, camera, Tissues, Pocket mirror, and anything else you may need.
Make sure it is full though.
Because a heavy bag makes you look busy and prepared.
Fitness : Massie does Yoga, Pilates, Swimming, and Tennis.
She does this to stay in tip-top shape so she will look good and skinny in all outfits.
If you are a little over weight, try exercising more.
But do fun things like what Massie does.
Alicia does dance class, and Kristen does Soccer.
Eat healthier too.
But NEVER become anorexic or bulimic.
That is just gross and very, very unhealthy.
Don't become obsessive over your weight like Dylan Marvil, and DO NOT go on any diets.
A sudden change in diet can actually wind you up in the hospital.
It's true.
If you really want to go on a diet to get skinnier, talk to your doctor first.
Technology : Get some technological items like cell phones, Palm-Pilots (Alpha's are always busy!), Computers, or Laptops.
Sign up for a few IMing accounts and maybe even get a facebook or twitter so you can see what other people are up to and you can post whatever you are doing with you clique.
Bedroom : Massie Block's Bedroom is all white with touches of purple.
She has a white Bed, a white desk (Catty-Cornered), A white vanity, a white chaise couch, white side tables, a white Mannequin,white lamps, and lots of clear vases with white flowers in them.
She has touches of purple like purple throw-pillows, Purple sheets, purple flowers, and more.
Not to mention her adorable dog bean's purple bed.
She has a cork board hanging above her desk.
Make sure you have something like this to hang pics of you and your clique doing all of the fun stuff you love.
DO NOT make your room an exact copy of Massie's.
This will make you look like an E.w (eternal Wannabe.)
Make sure you have tons of fashion Magazines laying around and NEVER have homework laying around, for this will make you look like an LBR.
Attitude : Massie is quick, witty, and can be really mean.
DO NOT use her comebacks though.
Like, "Did I invite you to my BBQ?....Then Why are you all up in my grill?"
A lot of people read the series and know about the comebacks.
People will just Laugh at you.
Come up with your own comebacks.
But don't make them too mean because you don't want people to hate you.
ALWAYS be nice to your parents so they won't realize your new alpha-tude.
Make them think that you are an angel that can do no wrong.
Organization : Get good grades, but don't get too stressed out about it like Kristen Gregory.
Just balance your grades and social life and you will be okay.Keep a nice and organized desk at home.
You should get a computer if possible.
Privacy : It is very alpha-like of somebody to be secretive and mysterious.
When someone walks by when you are gossiping with you clique, stop talking immediately... people snoop.
And to avoid being impersonated on your computer like Massie, lock your computer with a clever password EVERYTIME you leave a room.
And put a lock on your phone so no one, like your beta or your parents will snoop.
Lastly, id you have a diary, guard it with your life.
You can look up "How to keep a Diary Secret." on wiki How.
But you could do a current state of the union like Massie, but as I said before lock your computer because some people will snoop on online diaries.
Have a collection : But make it something cool.
Massie does Lipglosses from Glossip Girl.
But, since this brand doesn't really exist, buy any kind of lipgloss or make-up.
Just make sure it is high- quality too, you want it to look expensive and hard to get.
Pets : As you must know, Massie has an adorable Black Pug named bean.
You don't have to get a dog, you could just get a small pet like a bunny or hamster.
Just make sure you can hold it and sometimes talk to it.
But remember, it's okay if you can't get a pet, this part is 100% optional.
Boys : Massie is pretty good with boys I would say, I mean she had a boyfriend for a while but in Sealed With A Diss, Massie and Derrington break up because the clique was spying on the boys sensitivity class.
Just remember, if you want to spy on your boyfriend or a guy you like, don't get caught.
Trust the books, it won't end.