come.Try to get an idea of the observance of the family you're visiting.
Do they follow Orthodox practices, or are they more Conservative or Reform?
Dress appropriately.
If you're male, wear a dress shirt and some nice pants with a belt (good slacks are fine, if you must wear jeans at least make sure they are clean and without any holes).
If you're female, wear a skirt of at least knee length, and a nice, reasonably modest shirt.
Ask politely whether the household is kosher.
This will influence what, if anything, you should bring with you.
(If the household is Orthodox, it's a good bet they keep kosher.
If not, you might have some leeway.)
See "tips" below.
Be prepared to spend at least two or three hours at the dinner.
This is a festive experience and is meant to be enjoyed with lots of conversation, possibly some songs, and no hurry.
If it's a Passover Seder, there will be about an hour of reading and storytelling before you eat.
Get handshakes or hugs from the family, but don't be offended if members of the opposite sex do not shake hands or touch you.
Some religious Jews will not touch any person of the opposite gender (except the person they're married to or very young children).
Don't turn any lights or appliances on or off in the house while you're there (be careful if you're going to the bathroom, for example).
Many Jewish homes do not use electricity on holidays, and any switches you mess with must be left that way until the holiday is over.
Watch what people are doing.
Do not start to eat until everyone else is eating.
There may be some blessings (or "brachot") said before the meal.
The family may light candles, drink a cup of wine, ritually wash their hands and eat some bread before the meal begins.
If the family washes hands and they remain silent (or hum without speaking) for a few minutes afterward, it means they're about to say a blessing over the bread and they can't talk until this is done.
Relax and wait.
Once the meal is finished, the table will be cleared and some more prayers might be said.
You should not eat anything further after this.
As with any conversation, it's polite to be a good listener and not talk too much.
If you chat about politics, try not to say anything too offensive.
Feel free to ask questions about the Jewish religion, but be open minded.