bag.Get a binder.
You can choose binders with zippers, if you worry about papers falling out, or without zippers, since they can be opened and closed more quickly.
Also, have a folder that has two pockets that can be your homework folder.
One side for papers that you need to take home and work on, and the other side for the work that you have completed and need turn in the next day.
This makes it easier to know what homework you have to turn in or not.
Also on top of papers, put your name so your mom won't forget it.
Get any supplies that you may need, but don't have.
Being prepared is important.
Even if that certain item wasn't on the supplies list, you should get it if you really feel you need it.
Get anything you may need.
As they say, "better safe, than sorry."
Good things you might need:
Number 2 Pencils/ Mechanical Pencils
Tabs to mark pages
Folders & Binders
Erasers
Paper Clips
Mini Stapler/Stapler refills/Staple remover
Planner
Notebooks/Composition Books
Organize your backpack . If you already have an organized backpack, skip to the next step.
Go through folders and get rid of papers you no longer need.
Having all of those extra papers that you got back a month ago in your folder will make it heavy.
It may bend and tear.
But worst of all, you won't be able to find papers when you need them.
Put all graded papers in a separate folder when you clean out the folders from school.
To summarize this up if you don't understand - Clean out the folders you do use, put all graded work that you cleaned out in an extra folder or binder, keep it under your bed or in your closet.
Clean out your locker . If you have a locker, it may get messy.
See if the school will allow you to bring in a shelf.
That way, you can put books on one, extra papers or supplies.
But before you install that shelf, clean out any papers you don't need.
(Remember to clean out your locker every week or two.
This will ensure that your locker will stay clean and organized.)
Get a planner.
Planners are very helpful.
Most schools sell them, but some don't.
Buy one or make your own if the school doesn't provide one.
Write down homework, tests, club meeting dates, anything that you need to know or anything you may forget.
Make sure to look in it before you go home so that you take home everything that you need.
Put papers in folders.
This may seem obvious, but put any papers you need to keep in its subject folder.
Don't let loose papers mangle about.
Take those extra seconds and put them in a folder.
That way, you'll have them when you need them.
If you have an important paper that you don't want ruined, try getting some page protectors.
Another way to get organized is to use an accordion folder.
Accordion folders are the folders that expand and have many places for different kinds of paper.
An expandable file folder.
Having all your papers in one is better than having a whole bunch of folders.
Focus on your work . When you get to class, don't goof off with friends.
Pay attention and write down your homework in your planner and begin any assignments.
If you have no assignments to work on,talk quietly.
Never draw a teacher's attention to you with goofy behavior.
When you know something is due in say, two weeks, get your supplies as soon as possible.
When you get your supplies, draft out what you will be doing with your project.
Work on it a little each day.
Do not wait until the last minute to begin your project.
The night before the project is due, look over it.
See if you have missed any important steps.
Put what is due in a small pile next to your backpack.
If it is an essay, put it in your folder.
If it is raining or snowing, put your project in your backpack or cover it with a garbage bag.
At your house, designate a spot for school.
Have a desk with paper, pencils, pens and other school supplies in your room or in a place where it is quiet.
This is for your Homework and projects.
All supplies should be kept here.
Put your backpack by your desk.
This will let your body know that this is a place for work and not a place to play.
Put dates on your papers.
When you start taking notes, put the date at the top of the paper, so that if the teacher wants the work from a specific day, you'll have it.
Also, if a friend needs notes from a certain time you'll have it.
Do Homework as soon as you get it.
Do it that same night before your favorite program comes on TV or you go out.
If you don't, I can guarantee you will be doing it on the bus, or you won't do it all and then get in trouble with the teacher.
Catch up on missed work.
If you're absent, do the make-up work right away.
If you don't then you will get behind and maybe even miss out a whole section which might come up in some end of year exams.
Use plastic sleeves or hole punch sheets to keep them together in your folder.
This organizes everything and prevents the opportunity of losing anything.
Start up your own personal day planner.
This one, though, isn't for your school day, it's for the free time you have after school and on weekends, etc. This can keep you in the routine of setting out your day, and make you feel much more organized and prepared.
Even if it sounds like too much work, give it a go!
It will only help you.
Invest in a labeler, with sticky paper.
Every night take all your school stuff home including binders, folders, notebooks, etc., and label it according to period, subject, and time that class starts.
I also recommend putting your current grade on the inside of the appropriate notebook/folder for that subject.
It will help you stay focused on getting it higher.
Take everything you need home at night.
You don't want to be doing homework and notice you forgot a binder or notebook.