you.Telescopes don't bite but the competition can be fierce
Consider the challenges first.
Astronomy is a popular field and there is intense competition within it.
Moreover, there are not a lot of jobs available, and many of them will be in academia.
[1] [2] This means that you'll need to be prepared to study very hard, to focus yourself early on the areas you're willing to work in, and to also consider work in related but not necessarily pure astronomical work.
However, if you don't give it your best, you won't know your chances, so don't let the challenges stall you before you begin!
Be prepared to set aside the time and resources to become as qualified an astronomer as possible.
This will usually mean getting postgraduate qualifications on top of your initial degree, adding more time to your overall studies.
Do well at school if you're starting at this point.
This means top grades in your final year(s) examination results.
Focus in particular on mathematics , physics, and other science subjects, as these are the bedrock of astronomy.
In addition, knowing foreign languages, computer science and geography can be helpful.
[3] Other skills that it's important to have as an astronomer include:
Be analytical , logical, and have sound reasoning skills.
[4]
Look for a suitable college or university course.
Degrees focused only on astronomy as a first degree course are not common, so you may have to consider moving from where you live, or even applying to an overseas university.
Alternatively, speak to the university about the astronomy options that it does offer and work out whether taking courses in mathematics and/or physics with some astronomy input will be sufficient to enable you to later pursue postgraduate studies in astronomy alone.
Talk to the course advisers for more information.
Whatever your choice, it is important to aim for the best possible university or college that your school results enable.
[5]
Select suitable degree subjects . If you're able to get into a pure astronomy degree, then it's likely that the appropriate subjects will already have been sorted out by the course coordinators.
If not, then do a mathematics or physics degree.
If possible, add astronomy and/or astrophysics if offered but these can be picked up with higher degrees if need be.
[6] Whatever you end up studying, do very well in it.
By the time of your postgraduate work, be willing to challenge tradition and the status quo.
A great astronomer (who sadly died young), Beatrice Tinsley, is known as one of the greatest creative theoreticians in astronomy and was renowned for her breadth and ability to synergize a great deal of information and see many linkages.
Her thesis took 8 years before it was truly accepted because she was so forward thinking in what she discovered but she didn't let this deter her.
Be strong in your convictions (and factual bases) about seeing connections and theories others can't.
Spend time polishing up your computing skills.
This doesn't mean playing games; it means actual programming skills and understanding the mathematical principles that go into programming.
[7]
It can't hurt to do a lot of self-learning with telescopes
Make astronomy your passion.
Even if you're not able to study astronomy as part of your first degree , this is no reason for neglecting to learn as much about it as possible.
Read widely in the field, join a local astronomy society and involve yourself in its activities, and take trips to observatories and science museums.
As well, try to meet with real astronomers to talk to them about their jobs.
You never know, you might also be able to find vacation work doing mundane but crucial things to help astronomy projects in different parts of the world, so be sure to ask and to keep eye on online astronomy forums for any possibilities that might come up.
Look for part-time or vacation positions at university observatories during your semester breaks, even if you're working the till at the entrance.
It's all a foot in the door for the keen astronomer.
Even with specialization, there is no such thing as a "typical day" for an astronomer, as work can vary broadly including looking through telescopes, using computers to model theories, doing research, talking to other astronomers, educating the public, visiting other observatories, analyzing data, and attending meetings or conferences.