year.Get copies of all the movies.
They're all available on DVDs and they're all available at a reasonable price, so there's really no excuse for skipping this step if you're aiming to be a true Star Wars fan.
Sit through all the films if you haven't seen them all yet.
As you're watching, note things of interest to you, such as great lines, costumes , your favorite characters, etc., as these will influence your choices as to how far you're taking your Star Wars fandom.
Compare and contrast the similarities and differences between the films.
What are some of the most noticeable things for you?
Watch The Clone Wars on TV or DVD.
These latter day cartoons resume the Star Wars tales with very modern animation.
They're often found on the kids' channels.
Once you've watched the movies, consider also watching the fan films.
There are lots of them, they're a great deal of fun and many are very clever.
There are even top rated ones online.
[] These can be found easily online, on sites such as YouTube.
"Excuse me, Jesus?
Oh - pardon me!"
Learn the philosophical and other relevant underpinnings of Star Wars movies.
There are quite a few important messages to be gained from the Star Wars films and when defending your fan-love for Star Wars, a good understanding of the Star Wars philosophy can come in handy.
Indeed, understanding the themes behind the Star Wars movies will enhance your experience as a fan and encourage you to continue the fight of good against evil.
You may or may not agree with the following suggestions for the themes in Star Wars but that's good because it will get you thinking and reaching your own conclusions:
The anti-bullying theme.
[2] This is big theme in Star Wars.
Nasty people get their comeuppance, as it should be.
Good stands against evil and friends stick by you no matter how bad things get.
The inability to control one's destiny and how that directs your life.
The utility of living according to a code of conduct.
The self-destructiveness of a lust for power, and living in fear, anger, hate, and selfishness.
The power of knowledge.
The importance of maintaining self-discipline over all emotions, including love.
[] Anakin loved deeply but failed to discipline this part of himself and subsequently lost control as a result and went to the dark side.
The reality that good and evil carry shades of gray and can cross over.
Not everything is as it seems and we must all continue working hard to better ourselves and not make assumptions about how the world works.
The wielding of technology changes it from a neutral tool into whatever the person wielding it decides.
George Lucas was a student of mythology.
Read up on his background and the myths that influenced his thinking.
Learn all you can about the Star Wars characters, from the most famous down to the blink-and-you'll-miss-them ones.
They all have a role to play and some are clearly more interesting than others.
Which are your favorites and your least favorite?
As part of your studies, also spend time learning the various family trees , timelines, and various events relevant to each story.
Wikipedia has a list of all the Star Wars characters at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Star_Wars_characters
The TopStar Wars characters can be found here, with photos: http://au.ign.com/star-wars-characters/100.html.
"No, I am your father"
Study the famous lines from Star Wars movies.
Memorize the lines you'd like to be able to say when meeting other Star Wars fans.
You might want to go easy around people who don't "get" Star Wars though!
Here are just a few of the lines: [9] [10]
"The Force is with you."
"May the Force be with you."
"Use the Force, Luke."
"I find your lack of faith disturbing."
Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi.
You re my only hope.
The Force is strong with this one.
I suggest a new strategy, R. Let the wookiee win.
Don t call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of grease.
Watch your mouth kid, or you ll find yourself floating home.
Aren t you a little short for a stormtrooper?
Evacuate in our moment of triumph?
I think you overestimate their chances.
Use Star Wars speaking mannerisms.
As well as quoting the lines from the movies, you can also improve your everyday speech with some Star Wars affectations.
Learn Yoda's grammar [11] and diction [12] to speak like him.
Wave your hand like a Jedi when you want someone to do something and say: "You WILL not assign any homework today."
"You will give me a bigger allowance."
"You WILL buy me lunch."...etc.
Watch the characters and mimic their language and stances.
This will make the effect of your copying more effective and enjoyable.
Go searching for Star Wars sites online.
You will be amazed at the breadth of official sites, fan sites, fan blogs , and many other sites related to Star Wars.
It'll take you some time to work through them and find the ones you like the most.
There are so many that it's impossible to list them all but here are a few you might like to check out for starters (follow the notes to get the links):
Lucas Film Ltd: The man who brought you Star Wars, at this site you'll find a filmography and some other relevant Star Wars information.
[13]
Star Wars official site for all things Star Wars.
It even has a Star Wars shop for those who want to collect Star Wars items.
The Official Star Wars Fan Club.
The Last Star Wars family tree.
Star Wars Blooper Guide: Lots of bloopers, mistakes, and other trivia that made its way onto Star Wars films.
Wookieepedia: A wiki site where all things Star Wars can be edited by you.
Many, many blogs and fan sites.
Why not start your own fan blog or fan site too?
Play Star Wars games.
If you like games, there are lots of Star Wars game choices from board games to video games.
You can search through auction sites for original Star Wars board games and vintage Atari games, go online for Star Wars online games, and visit your local games store for contemporary Star Wars games on most platforms.
There are also tabletop model games (see the image), card games, and other types of games all based on Star Wars.
You can even make your own Star Wars games if you're a game-maker.
Get into cosplay . There are plenty of opportunities to get dressed up as your favorite Star Wars character and hang around other besotted fans at conventions.
Star Wars costumes are available for purchase from many online stores, as well as costume stores, or you can make your own.
Look for science fiction conventions or even ones focused purely on Star Wars and plan your appearance.
If you can go along with friends, all the better as you can theme your costumes together.
Wear Star Wars gear.
There are t-shirts galore featuring Star Wars themes, characters, quotes, and logos.
A quick online scout around will have you finding more things than you have time wear.
Select the ones that appeal to you most.
Look for items such as t-shirts, belt buckles, badges, jewelery , etc.
There are plenty of stores online selling Star Wars clothes and accessories, as well as auction sites.
Start collecting Star Wars memorabilia.
There is an insane amount of Star Wars merchandise out there display your devotion to the Star Wars universe to the world (or at least your minor obsession)!
While this could prove a never-ending time- and budget-sucking pastime, for many Star Wars fans, a collection of all things Star Wars is the ultimate in Star Wars fandom.
There are a lot of possibilities, including movie items, figurines, Lego , action figures, [19] Pez dispensers, costumes, light sabers, etc. The small plastic figures (the originals from the 70s are a major bonus), and the metal lightsaber replicas are some of the best SW fan merchandise you can get.
There are even Star Wars coins and medallions that you can collect.
Posters are a great collectible.
You can display these wherever it's suitable.
Movie props and advertisements can be a great collectible if you have the space.
If you like models, look for models that you can put together yourself.
Things such as spaceships and robotics make good models.
You could also try making your own.
Take your figurines to work and attach them to the top of your cubicle for others to see.
Just be careful of anyone else nabbing them though.
Search online and on auction sites for memorabilia, sites such as eBay or amazon.com or Craigslist.
Don't forget estate and garage sales either (often the best finds); collectibles turn up in the strangest of places.
And many games stores and antique shops (for vintage and otherwise), are also good choices.
Visit the filming locations.
There are several places where you can visit the filming locations in Los Angeles, England, Italy, Tunisia, and others.
Check online for tour times and locations.
You might even like to plan an entire vacation around visiting them.
Check out the Star Wars Locations site for more details on visits.
[20]
If you're already into making films at home, consider making your own Star Wars fan film tribute.
Even dog treats can be made into Star Wars shapes
Bake up a Star Wars storm.
There are numerous amazing Star Wars tasty treats you can make or bake at home, including:
Star Wars cookies.
There are Star Wars cookie cutters that you can purchase from various places, or you could make your own.
Williams Sonoma even has a set of cookie cutters complete with a Darth Vader spatula if you're really keen.
[21]
Star Wars cakes.
What Star Wars fan wouldn't want one for their birthday?
Star Wars cupcakes.
Everyone loves cupcakes, so adding a Star Wars theme to them makes them just perfect!
Knit and crochet RD2 and CP3O.
Knit your own Princess Leia wig.
Knit your own storm trooper hat.
Sew a Yoda outfit for your pooch.
Sew a Princess Leia hat for your baby.
Draw lots of Star Wars artwork and pin it up.