requirements.Obtain a degree in city planning (you may also have a master s degree in a related field, such as urban design or urban geography).
Some undergraduate programs in urban planning do exist, but be aware that you will need to hold a master s degree for most city planning jobs and for advancement opportunities.
Check the accreditation of undergraduate and graduate degree programs, which differs by country.
In the United States, accreditation is granted by the Planning Accreditation Board.
Many schools allow you to choose a specialization in an area such as land use, environmental planning, economic development, transportation or housing.
Whether you enroll in a planning program or a related area of study, consider taking additional courses in law, finance, public administration and economics where available.
Admittance to master s programs in city planning is granted to individuals from a wide range of undergraduate backgrounds.
If you are enrolling in an undergraduate program with the goal of becoming a city planner, some useful fields include geography, economics, political science and environmental design.
Become familiar with relevant software programs.
City planners use a number of computer software programs to manage zoning and forecasting tasks.
The most common type is geographic information systems software, which creates maps and overlays of geographic variables.
When obtaining your graduate degree, enroll in courses in related fields like statistics, computer science and geographic information systems to build your expertise in these areas.
Another important factor for becoming a city planner is internship experience.
Many degree programs require students to hold summer internships in local government offices.
Internships also establish valuable connections with potential employers.
Also consider positions in the areas of public heath, public policy, human services, historic preservation, public finance and workforce development, as all of these areas also employ city planners.