life.Attend college.
When in the undergraduate years, remember you may major in any field of study.
You must, however, meet the requirements to get into medical school.
It is most to your advantage to major in something relevent to the medical field such as biology or some sort of science.
These prerequisites include a year of general biology (with lab), a year of general chemistry (with lab), a year of organic chemistry (with lab), a year of physics (with lab)and a semester of genetics as well as english and humanities courses.
Most medical schools recommend taking a semester of biochemistry, as that material will be covered in medical school in a very short period of time.
It is highly encouraged you take the MCAT.
Many medical schools will not consider students if they have not taken this essential exam.
There is no passing and failing in the MCAT, however, your MCAT score is taken into account alongside your undergraduate GPA and extracurricular activities.
It is pivotal to do well on this exam, especially if you need to compensate for a less impressive portion of your resume.
Attend medical school, if you meet the requirements.
This is where the major learning takes place.
Normally, during the first two years you will be taking basic science classes and getting some exposure to the medical system.
The next year you will be exposed to more of the clinical medicine system, learning how the different branches operate and cooperate.
In the final year, you will be exposed to more "hands-on" activities, learning more about clinical medicine but also what you specifically do.
During this time you will also work on your application to a general surgical residency.
Alternatives to general medical school include dental school, then specialization in dental surgery or oral and maxillofacial surgery, and in some jurisdictions such as the United States, podiatric school to qualify to perform surgery exclusively on or around the foot.
Veterinarians may perform surgery on animal patients.
Apply to a surgical residency.
You will have to take USMLE Board examination, complete surgical clinical clerkships to get letters of recommendation, fill out applications, and interview at prospective programs in order to secure a surgical training position.
Do your internship in the state in which you want to practice.
Here is the first year of residency.
During this year begin to work full-time at a hospital and get a permanent license to practice.