hurt!Buy more than one ! Despite their name, hermit crabs are social animals, and do well in groups.
They are often found in the hundreds in the wild.
You can better observe their social patterns with at least 3, although you can most certainly get more!
And remember, crabs can bully smaller crabs.
Give them a good home.
The proper home for your crabs should be one that holds in humidity, but still lets in fresh air.
A fish tank usually does nicely.
You can even rinse out that old leaking tank from the attic and use it!
See the Tips below for ideas on how to modify it accordingly.
Plastic critter keepers work also, if they hold humidity, though glass tanks tend to be cheaper.
You could Buy a hygrometer (humidity gauge) or thermometer.
These will help you to monitor and maintain an optimal temperature and relative humidity of around 73-85 degrees F, and 75-85% relative humidity.
Hermit crabs breathe through (hardened) gills, and can't breathe properly unless the air is humid enough.
The ideal range is at least% relative humidity.
Humidity lower than 70% will cause suffocation, which kills slowly over several weeks or months and is extremely painful.
Hermit crabs are tropical animals and need warm temperatures.-85 F is the proper temperature range.
Heat damage is irreversible, and temperatures that are too low slow down a crab's metabolism.
An improper environment can cause your crab to become lethargic and inactive, lose limbs and ultimately, die.
Get substrate.
Your substrate should be at least 3-5 times the height of your largest crab, and should be a material the crabs can easily dig and build caves in to relieve stress, hide, and molt.
Playsand (found at stores such as Lowes, Home Depot, or Toys-R-Us) or beach sand are a good and low-costing choice.
If the Playsand bag has holes or is wet, than return it as it may have bacteria in it.
Use dechlorinated salt water to wet the sand to a "sand-castle" consistency.
You also can use compressed coconut fiber (Sold as Eco-Earth or Jungle Bedding).
Expand the cocofiber in the same salt water you would give your crabs to prevent mold/mildew.
Substrates that crabs can not dig in, such as aquarium gravel (can not hold caves) or calcium sand (clumps and can have a foul odor) are not acceptable as a substrate.
Many crabs also like to bury and even molt in damp moss such as Fluker's Reptile Moss ( not decorative or Spanish moss!)
Keep their substrate clean.
Change it every 2 months, or sooner if you see mold, or have an ant, mite, or other infestation.
It's a good idea to "spot clean" any dung and food the crabbies have dragged from the food bowl or buried.
Play sand can be sterilized in the oven.
Put the sand in a large roasting pan (one used only for this purpose!)
and place it in the oven.
Set the temperature to 250 degrees (F), (120 degrees Celsius) and leave it be for about 2 hours.
Once every two to three weeks, boil all the shells and dishes in a pan of dechlorinated water.
Allow to cool before placing them back in the "crabitat".
Get play-toys.
Hermit crabs love to climb!
In fact, in the wild, they will climb large rocks exposed by low tide to search for food.
They are sometimes called "tree crabs" because they will climb trees to eat insects and vegetation.
Some ideas:
Giving them things to climb on is a must; choya logs or stumps are great for this.
It is not toxic, and has holes in it for them to grab on to.
You can lean it in a corner of your tank, just don't place it too high or your crabs will climb out.
Legos and hemp nets work well too.
Natural rocks and seashells that you pick up at the beach are great things to scatter around the "crabitat."
Clam shells even make great food dishes.
Plastic plants made for reptiles are great for crabs to climb and hide in, just remember to use the lid of your tank so the crabs can't climb out.
Make sure they aren't eating the plastic, and remove it right away if they are!
Never use reptile "half pine logs", as pine is an irritant to the crabs and can be toxic.
A hiding place is also a must!
You can use a half coconut shell that they sell at pet stores for small crabs, or use broken pots, large shells, etc. Just make sure that the crab won't get stuck and, preferably, is able to dig out if it does.
Live plants can be added as well; bamboo (make sure it's real bamboo and not Dracaena Sanderiana, which is sold as "lucky bamboo"), Venus fly traps bromleiads (air plants) and spider plants are among the safe plants.
Although, be forewarned your hermit crabs may snack on them, so there's no guarantee the plants will have time to grow
Molting And Extra Shells If your crab digs under for a couple of weeks, don't worry.
As long as it doesn't stink like dead fish, he's OK. Please do not disturb your crab during this time.
He will need to be alone and if he is bothered, the stress could kill him.
Once in a while, a crab's exoskeleton gets a little tight, and like a snake shedding its skin, a crab will shed its exoskeleton and grow a little bit.
Don't take the exoskeleton away from the crab!
He will need to eat it in order to harden his new exo.
This is where the shells come in.
When they grow, they need bigger shells.
It is important to keep plenty of extra hermit crab shells similar to your crabs' sizes in the tank at all times.
Once a month or so, rotate a few undisturbed shells out with different styles of shells.
NEVER buy painted shells!
Although companies may claim the paint is safe, the paint can chip off, and if the crabs eat it, it can be toxic.
Most hermit crabs, when presented with a choice, will pick a "natural" shell over a painted one, even if it's not the right size.
See the Warnings for information on what kinds of shells to a avoid.
All species of hermit crab need to have access to both freshwater and saltwater.
You will need to provide two water dishes for the crabs.
Hermit crabs need to balance the salinity of the water in their shells; the dishes should be at least deep enough that your crab can get water in its shell (C. Perlatus, A.K.A. Strawberry hermit crabs, need to be able to submerge themselves), but make sure they are able to get out.
If you have large and small crabs together, you can put small rocks or a small natural sponge in the water dishes so that it is deep enough so large crabs can let water in its shell, but small crabs will not become trapped in the water dish and drown.
You can buy aquarium salt for marine fish (not freshwater fish) from most pet stores and a little goes a long way.
Never use salt intended for human consumption because the anti-caking agents can be harmful.
Most hermit crab brand salts are also table salts.
Pre-mixed "hermit crab water" does not have the correct salinity.
Use a brand like Instant Ocean, Oceanic, etc.
The water needs can dechlorinated.
The chlorine, chloramines and heavy metals in most tap water can kill hermit crabs by causing the gills to blister (causing eventual suffocation).
Aging the water will remove the chlorine, but not the chloramines, so dechlorinator is a must if you use tap water.
Zoomed water conditioner is a good brand to use.#*If you don't want to dechlorinate tap water, you can use spring water instead.
However, make sure nothing has been added to the water.
For example, Dasani water contains magnesium sulfate "for taste", and that is bad for the crabs.
Provide a steady and varied diet.
Hermit crabs are scavengers by nature and will eat almost anything.
Beware of commercial food, as it has many preservatives, such as copper sulfate, that may harm your little hermit.
Don't feed them anything spicy, hot, or with preservatives in it.
They love silversides and shrimp that are fresh, freeze-dried krill, bloodworms, etc., and other seafood.
If you have more than twenty crabs or so, try getting a fish head from a local fish market.
They are usually happy to give them away.
You can put all of your crabs in a large tank or a large clean Rubbermaid storage container, (clear, no lid, or lid with VERY large holes cut in it) drop in the fish head, and a water-bowl, and leave them in there to eat for a few hours.
I don't suggest doing this very often, because the smell can be very strong, but your crabs will love you for it!
If you cook, set aside a piece of steak or chicken, non-marinated to grill lightly for the crabs.
They also eat raw meat.
Hermit crabs love fresh fruit like pineapple, apple, pears, grapes, cantaloupe, watermelon, mango, papaya, strawberries, bananas, etc. Wash your fruit thoroughly before you cut it, to avoid pesticides.
Crabs will go crazy for coconut shavings.
They will also eat natural peanut butter on whole wheat toast, hard boiled eggs, egg shells (boiled), popcorn (plain, unsalted and unbuttered).
Don't feed your crabs the same thing two times in a row.
Mix it up a bit.
Remember, they eat whatever they come across in nature.
Remember to change their food almost every day/night.
Hermit crabs love to bury their uneaten food, and this can cause molding and is messy.
Avoid anything from the Allium species of plants (onion, garlic, etc.).
Play with them.
Some Hermit crabs love attention.
When they are up, carefully take them out of their crabitat.
What do they like to do?
Climb!
Let them climb all over your shirt while you are watching TV or exercise them as they walk across both your hands (like a crab treadmill).
It is important that they never fall, and are not out too long, because remember, they need humidity.
Falling from a height of 3 ft. can be fatal for them, and fear of falling is the number one reason crabs pinch.
Keep them in a position where they aren't going to fall and they likely won't pinch.
Just make sure to watch your crab when out, and only take one out by yourself.
While "playing" with them may seem fun to you, typical house humidity is only 40% and even less with AC and heat.
Crab's gills being exposed to low humidity is like us holding our breath too long.
Please remember this when they're out of their habitat.
Also, they may pinch for no reason; be prepared.
It hurts and misting or running tap water on crabs can hurt them and will likely result in them holding on longer and tighter.
Please be very careful when handling them.
You can avoid being pinched by holding your hand flat and tight so that the hermit crab will not have (as much) skin to pinch on to.
Also handle with care, if you just got them put them in a well natured habitat otherwise they may be unhappy and not move therefore you cannot tell if they are dead or alive.
Have stuff inside the cage to climb.
This is where people make mistakes.
They don't put anything to climb on and they will start to panic.
When you get your hermit crabs leave them in the cage for a few days.
Then they get use to you being around.
When you see they don't hunch into their shell when you pass by then wait another day and try to hold it.
Never hold it out of its cage or they will pinch.
Change the food and put fresh water in almost everyday or every other day.
At your local pet store you might find some hermit crab salt.
if you want you can every other day put a sixteenth of salt in five teaspoons of water inside a medium sized bowl from your local pet store.
Put the salt in their water.
If the habitat is big enough you might want to put fresh water and salt water in.
Salt water they bath in and fresh water is where they drink.
Most hermit crabs are not bred in captivity for commercial purposes.
They are taken from the wild, shipped to the wholesalers then to the retailers.
This is incredibly stressful on these little guys.
Once you get them home, they go through a "de-stressing" period that can take as little as a few days and as long as two months.
During this time, change out their food and water regularly and do not disturb them.
Sometimes, even with the best efforts of even the most experienced crabber, hermit crabs can succumb to Post Purchase Stress (P.P.S.), and die.