Etc.First, make a list of as many hobbies, activities, occupations, bodies of knowledge, talents, skills, and events that you can imagine.
The world is full of them, so try to think of at least 20.
If you keep blanking, look at the things below for some inspiration.
When you finally have your list, pick three to five of these which you could accomplish within a week.
Pick another five which you could accomplish in three months.
Now pick another three to five things which could take a year to achieve.
This will give you a good start.
Make sure that you give yourself a tangible schedule to achieve each goal.
If at first you don't succeed, reschedule or decide to try a different goal for a while.
Get a hobby.
If you already have one, try something new that you might not have considered before.
Things like writing, dancing, or acting are all good examples.
Joining a sports team or club is also a great way to have a good time and meet new people.
If you're not a sporty person, try learning an instrument or even a new language.
You'll meet new friends with similar interests and have something interesting to talk to people about.
Become a more passionate and charismatic person.
Go out and learn about various different subjects.
Read books or watch films and see what kind of things interest you.
Dedicate yourself to something you care about and learn as much about that thing as you can.
Get out there and try something new.
Volunteer.
Help other people.-
Work with other people,volunteer at a charity,help out in the community.
Whatever you do,it will make an impact.
Do something quirky and original- something that you have never done before.
Even the small things can make life more interesting.
Do things you wouldn't normally do- ride a bike to your errands instead of driving.
Buy strange foods you normally wouldn't touch.
Talk to people you've never spoken to before.
Sing,dance,laugh,and be happy!
Think back : "When was the last time in my life I was actually happy?"
This can help lead you to things which you may have forgotten you could do, but where there all along.
Talk to people that you wouldn't normally talk to, wither in school, on a bus, at a community event, at work, or the library, if someone isn't really in your group but you end up sitting beside them or something, ask things like "Hey, crazy (or boring) weather were having, huh ?" or just say something to get a small conversation going, like "Wow, did you hear about Carlie Sheen's newest escapade?
Neither did I, but he sure is weird, huh?"
Socialize and make conversation with new people.
If you and your friends are going to the movies or out somewhere, ask other people to tag along.
The more the merrier!
Re-arrange your usual schedule.
If you do things at the same time every day, just move them about a bit.
Be bold, wear Thursday's underwear on Monday!
It'll spice things up a little.
Start an interesting and rewarding project.
Like re-decorating up your bedroom, or starting a collection.
Get a part time job or a completely different wardrobe or hairstyle.
Make a movie, or start a blog or a website.
Get a date.
Do something random and exciting.
If you're fond of writing, then you can write some articles, maybe even on wikiHow ! You can even maybe try a hand with writing some poems or any other intellectual hobbies.
If you have a knack for it, you might even make some money off of it.
Do what you always wanted to do and try to do as many new things as possible.
Don't know how to play a really cool sport that you love to watch?
Try it out.
Find someone and find time to teach, play and practice with you.
It's always good to try new things at your comfort rate.
Change your diet.
New food, new you.
Just don't go over the top with losing weight!
Hang out with other people.
If you feel like your life is boring, it might have something to do with the crowd you are hanging around.
Don't just forget your old friends, but branch out a little.
You'll be glad you did.
Get wild . Spice up your life by going to exotic places, cultivating amazing plants, raising an odd and quirky animal.
Just let your imagination explode, and you'll live a more exciting and rewarding life!
Look fear in the eye.
Know by this, I don't mean jump off a building without a parachute, but do the things you're kind of nervous doing.
Like for example; talk to a girl, dance, try to crack a joke, or even stand up for someone else.
Don't be a hermit; get out there!
Who knows, it could get you friends.
Just don't be stupid.
Make the right choices.
Are you happy doing with what you do, or with your friends?
Maybe it's not the right thing.
You can experiment with different things to see if anything brings you more joy.
Go with a friend to a concert, or a movie if they ask you.
But don't do crimes, they're always wrong.
Put yourself out there ! If you are lonely, then put yourself on the market for a new friend or group.
Be interesting, while doing the things you love, try doing it differently.
Life is good, especially with friends.
Don't forget romance either.
If he/she is solo, then try charming him/her with your traits.
Life is good when you get noticed, and get friends.
Look on the positive side of things ! If you're going to a boring place, look on the bright side.
If you're going shopping, and you don't like to shop, look at "the bright side" - at least you have food to eat.
Change.
Sometimes you just need a healthy change to break the monotony.
Dying your hair, or throwing a party, or taking a holiday, or trying a new hobby are great ways to do this.
Start to flirt with girls/guys.
Its a fun thing to do that gets you noticed, and girls-boys love it when you return the favor!
Sometimes it's good to be spontaneous ! Talk to the person in front of you in the grocery line or introduce yourself to the jogger in the street.
You never know what might become of it!
Do something you have never done before.
It's good to try new things!
You can even make a new hobby out of it.
Maybe something your friends/family does that you haven't.
And if you don't like it, no harm done.
You'll probably end up making new friends if you stick with it.
Keep a diary.
It's a great idea to scribble down your thoughts from time to time!
You don't have to write inside it everyday, just whenever you feel like it.
One day you'll be able to look back on the things you wrote...
If you don't know how to start you can invite your friends to sleep over but firstly you have to ask your parents about it ! Hope your life is going to turn interesting and nice!
Wish you the best in your trying!
Don't try to change your image to be accepted into a club or sport !
Make a bucket list ! Try to actually do the things you write down too.
Remember, you only live once!
Make the most of your time!
Join a class.
For example, if you are interested in dance then join a dance class and improve your dancing skills.
Hang out with friends ! It's always very interesting to be out with friends.
Give yourself a total make-over ! Don't be afraid to experiment and have fun because if you didn't like they way you were before, then odds are you will like anything new.( I wouldn't go overboard for example,going into a goth look if your naturally a preppy person etc..)
Go brunette or blonde.
Maybe get a super curly perm or go for a pin straight look, or let your hair out naturally if you hadn't before.
Remember to be yourself and stay true to yourself.
There is nothing worse than a hypocrite.
Do something for a cause.
Support a charity like the WWF (World Wildlife Fund), it'll make you feel good.
And lastly, your love life.
If you are single and you have a crush on someone take a risk and ask them out.
If you have a boyfriend/girlfriend, take it to the next level.
Go outside more, the more you spend outside the more people you meet, the more you meet the more likely you get more friends to share your hobbies with
If you are single, start to talk more with girls/guys, as mentioned before.
Get out of that shell and go out and talk to different people, you might even like to travel around a country for a certain period of time ?
Step out of your comfort zone, do something different, think of something you've always wanted to do and just do it, like a holiday or an activity.
Build something ! Building can be very fun if you like it.
Try going out and buying some legos or wood if you don't think legos are "age appropriate".
Try to do what THEY like.
If it's a boy, start acting like a tomboy (zombies, shooting, etc.) or if it's a girl start acting A LITTLE girly because a girly boy is just WEIRD.
Like, pretend you ARE actually interested in the Bratz, Littlest Pet Shop, Barbie, etc. stuff.
If you two like the same things, they'll think your life is more interesting.
Let the other one do what they want, don't suggest.(good ex.
"Whaddaya wanna do? :I don't know: Let's play Monopoly! :Sure!:)(bad ex. :let's play Candy Land!:)...-Always let THEM decide what to do.
Do something risky or try something interesting, and dangerous, like BMXing, or something crazy,like sky diving or fire breathing !
If all else fails make a list of 6 things you have always wanted to do (e.g. walk up Mount Snowdon) and each 6 months you have to go down the list and do these things, no excuses!
Be different ! Do your own thing!
Get attention and be the life of the party.
Where ever you go.
Feel free, but not too free!
And don't be annoying or insulting while you do it.
Be friendly and nice.
And try not too be too loud.
Then you'll just be some stupid goof.
And make sure you dont hurt yourself!
Live everyday like a day you want to remember it.
Saying that seems impossible, how can you actually remember everyday of your life?
But to have an interesting life, you have to do interesting things and be interesting, after all, we only have one life.
Remember to laugh even when everything seems to be going wrong, all you can really do is laugh it off, calm down and don't get too overwhelmed by the moment because it will pass.
Life is not a bed of roses like people usually say.
There are more days when we are stressed than days when we are actually relaxed and have everything we need.
So changing your life is never going to happen overnight no matter how bad we want it to.
So realistically, I could tell you get a hobby, play a new instrument, learn a language but everybody knows that all that is far fetched becuase yes, you would like to do all those but your daily routine would most likely alawys be your daily routine because thats your survival mode, you don't eat if you don't work, you dont get your degree or diploma if you don't go to school.
So what is being said is that all of the new and exciting thing being discussed, is for you to make a gradual adjustment in your life.
If you really want to learn a new language or play a new instrument, put your deadline for 6-8months not 2weeks.
That gives you process to adjusting to the change and it lets you enjoy and embrace the change to fit your already set lifestyle.
You want change to occur in your life ? You have to pick what you want to change and keep it slow and steady.
Be consistent, that is the only way to see results that you seek.
Any change that occurs fast or overnight never lasts because it took you your lifetime to get to that point, so how will it take you overnight to make a change?