easier.Look at your room.
What's so messy about it?
Look for the big things first.
realizing what makes your room messy in the first place is a good start to cleaning it.
So if you have a big teddy bear or an old fish tank, take it out and either put it away for now, or just trash it.
See if you have any furniture you don't want or need anymore.
Get somebody to help you move them.
Now you got the main things out, you are ready to start cleaning.
Put your dirty clothes into laundry bags.
You're probably left with a lot of clothing, toys, etc. You didn't really do much but clear out the hardest parts.
Take your dirty clothing off the floor and put them in a container, or, if you have one, a laundry basket.
Take your clean clothing and pile them up somewhere else.
Also, Don't just leave your dirty clothes in the hamper, make sure they actually get washed!
Put up your toys.
If you are still young, and reading this guide and have toys, then take your toys and observe them.
Do you want them anymore?
Are they in good enough shape to donate?
Put your toys into 3 piles: Toys to keep in your room, toys to throw out, and toys to donate.
Now keep your piles out of your room and away for now.
Again, we will go back to that later.
Put up the dishes.
A common thing in messy rooms are dishes.
You probably have glasses laying around with a little sour milk still on the bottom, and plates with sauce all over them.
Go to the "Tips" Section if you have ants, roaches, or any insect in your room.
Anyway, take your dishes down and wash them.
Make sure you do it nice, and remember to put them back in the cabinet for the next family member or guest to use.
Take a sponge and wipe any glass marks (From not using a coaster) or spills from food and drinks.
Good.
You got the grossest part of cleaning your room done.
Now down to the next step.
Take all your books and dust them.
Make sure you get rid of any "Doggy-ears" (Folds in the corners of the page) and put them in a rack or a shelf.
If you don't have one, put them to the side for later (where you put your toys and clothing).
If you are up to this step and you have any animals, clean their cage/tank.
If you have fish, make sure the water is clean.
If it isn't, Read How to Clean a Fish Tank.
Once it's clean, Feed them.
Make sure they are healthy.
If you have a bird(s),take them out for a little.
Take out their newspapers from the bottom (Or sand if you use that) and throw them out, replace them.
if your cage still smells, Take your sponge again and wipe the cage inside and out.
Put any bird toys back in and place your birds in, with it.
Now you have a clean bird cage.
Also on the rare occasion you have a reptile, (Iguana, Turtle, Snake, etc.) Clean any feces out.
If you have a turtle, then follow How to Clean a Turtle Tank.
You may even have a rabbit.
Follow this article in that case: How to Clean an Indoor Rabbit Cage.
If you have a television set, use toilet paper or cloth to wipe the dust off the screen.
Do the same for the rest of the television.
Keep the remote somewhere where you'll remember.
Now take the clothing you put away before and put in in your drawer....
Neatly!
Then take the toys you put aside and arrange them in your room as you'd like.
Keep the donating toy pile for tomorrow, unless you did this early in the day.
The books can stay until you have a place to put them.