interestsAccept your pet's fate.
At some point, we all need to come to terms with the mortality of our beloved pets.
There are very few animals that, as pets, have the expected lifespan of humans.
If your pet is ill or is a "senior" pet, it's a good time to talk with your veterinarian about your pet's continued quality of life.
Talk with your vet.
When talking with your vet, ask if and how much pain your pet is experiencing.
Knowing this will help you make the right decision for your pet, and knowing that you make the best choices for your pet helps you better cope with the loss of a pet.
Consider the animal's quality of life.
Is s/he in pain?
Can the pain or illness be treated medically, and still offer your pet a good quality life?
Does s/he have a good appetite?
Is your pet happy?
Finally, give thought to whether medical treatment is financially viable for you.
For most of us, finances do need to be a consideration, albeit a very unpleasant one.
Based on the vet's assessment and your own judgment, make the decision, with your pet's happiness in mind.
If you're not sure, consider getting a second opinion from another vet.
Well-remembered
Take pictures of your pet.
You will want something to remember him or her by.
Even if s/he looks sick and miserable, it is very important to take photos and video, as bittersweet as it may feel.
In the future, you may wish to boast about what a wonderful pet you had, and you may want to show people what he or she looked like.
Collect anything else you want to remember her or him by.
This includes a favorite toy, a blanket, or a decorative element from a tank or cage.
Consider taking a clipping of your pets hair.
Let your pet roam
Continue to spend time with your pet.
Let your pet know how much you love him or her, and cherish every moment.
Pet your special one in all its favorite places, and above all else make sure is/he is comfortable.
Talk and maybe even sing.
Do things that your pet has always enjoyed, when still able, like letting curling up on your lap for hours at a time, giving plenty of time to roam in the yard, and eating yummy little treats.
If there was ever a time to spoil your pet, this is it.
Discuss your pet's diet with your vet.
If your pet is at an advanced age, a change in diet may make your pet happier on many levels - offering a diversity of foods and/or foods that are easier to eat or digest (and help prevent weight loss).
At the same time, respect your pet's wishes; if s/he wants to be left alone, don't violate your pet's comfort.
Let your pet have his or her way.
Consider staying with your pet during euthanasia.
It is usually a painless and peaceful process for your pet, but most important, you will be with your beloved pet in its last moments, helping to ease its way along.
Holding and petting your animal can give you as much comfort as it gives your pet, and though it's a sad experience, it's one that will help you to feel you did all you could for your pet in this world.
Make arrangements as to what you will do with his earthly remains.
When preparing for the loss of a pet, you also need to prepare for all the practicalities that follow.
They are an absolute nightmare if you're unprepared - and may add to your grief and stress at the time.
You want to ensure you've taken care of all arrangements before hand.
You may wish to bury it in your yard with or without a grave marker.
You can also have it buried in a cemetery or cremated.
Allow yourself to cry.
Bottling up your emotions is not good for you, and you will feel sad forever.
Forget all that mumbo jumbo that you're not supposed to mourn an animal as much as you would a person.
There was a bond that you cherished, and no matter the nature of the bond, it is missed.
Tell your friends about the loss.
You might send out a mass e-mail, but not to everyone in your address book.
Send it to those who know you well, and care about you.
You will receive many responses that let you know others loved and appreciated your pet and will validate your feelings.
The good times
Remember your pet.
Don't pretend you never had one.
Even though it makes you sad, it is best to remember and cherish the memories, not ignore them.
It may hurt at first, but it's the only path to closure, and it's the only way you'll ever be able to remember fondly your time with your pet.
This is a good time to make a scrapbook or post photos on your blog or homepage.
Include pictures, stories, and notes about your pet.
Go on with life.
Although losing a pet is very sad, it is no reason to shut yourself up in your house or go into depression.
Your pet has always felt comfort in your comfort, and the sooner you get back on track, the sooner you'll be yourself again.
Consider volunteering at a local animal shelter . While emotionally, you may not be prepared to welcome another pet into your home right away, the act of helping to care for a homeless pet, a pet in desperate need of a caring human, may help with your grieving and sadness.