efficiently.Collect your materials and clear a workspace.
You'll be using the card first so make sure this is laid out in front of you.
Step 2: The box net
Draw the net of your house as in the picture.
The dimensions don't have to be the same ratio as the picture but make sure that all the sides that are the same color on the image are draw the same length, and that your rock will fit inside once it has been constructed.
Use a ruler and a set square the ensure the best Travel house.
Otherwise it won't fit together as nicely.
Carpet the house.
Cut pieces of material to the right size and cover one side of your "net" with it or you can just color it in (you may need to cover with plain paper first if your card is patterned).
You can decide that each rectangle is a different room and carpet differently if you wish.
You'll probably want to use PVA, fabric glue or a glue gun to stick down material.
You can decide one rectangle is the garden and use plastic grass or green felt.
Felt can be bought with an adhesive backing so you don't even need to glue!
Just peel off the cover and stick down.
Fold along the lines.
Make sure that the side with the material on is on the inside.
Do not glue or tape - just fold!
Step 4: Material on the inside
Make a lid for your house.
This uses the same net as before, and the same dimensions you used earlier plus the following adjustments!
(note that these adjustments are for card used for cereal boxes.
If you used thicker card then replace 2mm with width of the card plus an extra 1mm).
Add 2mm to the blue length
Addmm to the green length
Subtract.5cm from the red length
Decorate the net for the lid with colorful wrapping paper (1 side only).
Fold along the lines of the net for the lid.
Make sure that the side with the wrapping paper on is on the outside.
Step 7: Wrapping paper on the outside
Tape the lid for the net together to create a box by taping together the red lines on the diagram.
Turn it upside down and it should fit over the bottom part of the house.
Step 8: Using the lid
Paint the matchbox brown and apply stickers and stamps to create a suitcase for you rock.
Steps 8 & 9: The matchbox suitcase
Stick the matchbox to the top of the lid, make sure you can still pull out the draw compartment (this may require you to stick a handle to it).
Glue a long piece of ribbon connecting the two pink lines, then another piece connecting the two red lines.
You can use this ribbons to hold the box securely and take it with you but make sure they are long enough that you can still open the box when you need to, test it out by sticking the ribbons first with masking tape.
Step 11: Add the ribbon here
Step 11: Using the ribbon
Find 4 beads, with a medium size hole.
Make sure you can fit a cocktail stick through it easily.
Pony beads are ideal (but not the novelty shaped ones).
Stick these to the bottom of your travel house using strong double sided tape or a small amount of glue from a glue gun (don't obstruct the hole !).
Make sure they are inline and make the holes parallel to the base of the house.
They all need to have the holes facing the same direction.
Step 15: Beads
Thread a cocktail stick through a pair of beads to act as an axle.
The cocktail sticks may not be long enough (they need to be wider than the mobile home) in which case you can use the wooden shaft from a cocktail umbrella instead.
Cut out four circles from strong card or alternatively use wheels from broken toy cars.
Anything circular will do as long as you have four.