here.Begin the ad creation by analysing your product and consumer.
Each ad has to be made specifically for those who are interested in buying the product or using the service, namely the "Consumer", or the Target Audience.
Understand WHO will buy or
Who is your consumer?
use your product / service.
Search for as much information about them as possible.
If your product is already in the market you can obtain this information by conducting consumer surveys, talking to the sales people, or observing consumer behaviour at various stores.
If the product has not as yet launched, use best guess strategy or existing market information.
Thus you will be able to define who your buyer or user is - this is your Target Audience, or the Consumer.
If you are selling a pencil, your target audience may be kids, students, women, men or teachers.
Are they the users, buyers or influencers?
In the case of pencils users may be students, buyers are parents and influencers are friends.
Find out WHAT is so special about your product, the unique selling proposition.
Make sure you find only one compelling reason otherwise you will confuse your reader.
This is also sometimes referred to as the brand positioning.
Look for something that current competitors do not offer or do not overtly claim to offer.
Identify a relevant
Highlight the Product benefit
unique product offering.
By relevant it should be something that the consumer needs or likes, and not that's unique for the sake of it.
An example of something unique to your product but not relevant is a colourful garbage bag.
Finding the one most relevant reason is more challenging than it sounds.
Make a list of your product benefits and then rank them in the order of importance to your Consumer (not to you).
Concentrate on the top most benefits.
Is there an unmet desire or need, any frustration in the mind of your consumer, that will create a market for your particular product?
Assess the need gap that exists for the product or service
The product claim you make should be credible and trustworthy - don't make incredulous claims that your product can not deliver.
Take for example the pencils.
Do they need to sharpened or be lead replaced.
Are they easy to grip, should they be smooth and stylish, and come in many attractive colors, so on so forth
Understand WHY will they buy
Consumers have many choices
or how will they use your product.
Why consumers buy this product category, your brand or the competitor's brand.
Decide HOW to effectively convey the Product message.
Use the information that you have collected to form a "Creative Brief" for your creative team.
Normally the product benefit or your USP is highlighted in the ad by using catchy headlines and attention grabbing visuals.
For the tone and style of the ad you need to keep your Target Audience in mind.
It should get their attention, be easy to understand, informative, correct in tone and manner and above all entertaining.
Engage the consumer to make your ad stand out in clutter (a term used to describe plethora of ad messages that an average consumer is exposed to) and be different from competitors.
Words such as "Free" , "Extra" , "Best" , "New" or "Now" are the traditional favourites.
For an instant response, action words such as Call Now , Hurry , Rush , work well.
Don't forget to include all the information that is required but at the same time don't overload.
Keep it simple and short.
Think of when will they buy, how will they shop for it.
This will help you decide how, when and where to advertise, what media is best for you; choices may be local Newspaper, web, pamphlets and many others.