them.Check the conditions for living in the dorm before you do anything ! you may not be allowed to add furniture, or change soft furnishings such as curtains- but don't let this put you off.
If you face such restrictions here are some ideas that might help-
Can't change those awful curtains?
Cover them in pin badges of all sorts of shapes and colours!
Find cool ones in charity shops, thrift shops and online!
Drape scarves or fun fabrics around the window to draw attention away from ugly or plain curtains.
(if allowed - some schools may deem it a fire hazard).
Uncomfortable furniture?
CUSHIONS!
You can get cool little ones that tie onto desk chairs, or massive throw ones to sit on and read books.
Tight on space?
Pin a ribbon across your bulletin board, it makes a brilliant earring or office supply holder (use binder clips to hold small containers, important papers, etc), and looks cute too!
Pin a large sheet of funky fabric over your bulletin board!
Everything can still be pinned over it, but now you have an awesome background!
Prepare before you move in.
Get together some pictures and visit a local store to buy some photo frames.
Mount some pictures without the frame too.
Go to a local store and buy a rug to coordinate with your bed coverings.
You can even get coordinating curtains.
Call your school or visit the dorm for measurements if you need to fit things into a certain space, so you buy everything in the right size.
Call your roommate before school starts and coordinate your bedding for a sleeker look.
It's a great way to get to know them better.
You can email bedding ideas back and forth.
You can also hold off on shopping for those things until you get to school and go shopping together.
Just remember to stay flexible and try to compromise should your taste differ.
Bring a plant or buy one when you get there.
It adds a nice vibrant touch to a room, and a low-maintenance plant like a cactus won't involve much watering.
After arriving, find a poster sale and buy enough posters to cover the blank areas of your walls and/or ceiling.
Buy any poster that is somewhat interesting to you; don't be picky.
It's also worth going through old magazines and papers to cut out pictures you like at no cost.
Set up your decorations.
Cover your walls with posters and pictures.
Don't forget about the bulletin board.
Fill up any extra shelf space with the frames.
Change out the knobs on the furniture (just be sure to save them so you can put them back on in June!).
Get creative and paint your own and really turn this room into your own!
Gather some memorabilia and post it on your walls, hang it from the ceiling, set it on your desk, etc. Pictures of friends and family from home, a favorite stuffed animal, a newspaper article starring you - all of these can be great dorm deco.
Having fond memories of the objects in your room will make it feel more like home, and as time goes on you can add things you pick up at college.
Make it personal, but not too personal.
Remember there will be another person living in this room.
Buy a dry erase board for your door.
They're useful for messages, letting people know that you're taking a nap, and writing random things for people to see.
If your dorm bed is very low, bed risers are available to increase the storage room under it!
They come in a few sizes but most are-6" plastic cones with a flat top on which your bed's legs will rest.
make your own storage space!
Under the bed you can store flat objects or boxes.
Never know what you might need.