inexpensive)Take everything off of your bed, except for the mattress.
Then, wash your bedding.
While this is in the wash, try to pick up some of the items on the floor or continue with the steps.
Flip your mattress to increase the lifespan and your comfort.
Next, make your bed!
Be sure to style the pillows any way you like!
Make the bed neat , but also add a touch of you.
Making the bed makes a big difference in your room.
If you have one, neatly place a stuffed animal on your pillow.
Organize your bedside table, if you have one.
Take everything off and out of it.
Organize the drawers and the top of it.
Wipe down the bedside table and go through the items you cleared off of the bedside table.vPut anything important you might need on the top of it like a glasses case, cell phone, etc. But try not to make it too cluttered.
Organize your desk ,if you have one, because school is very important and school work is easiest in an organized area.
Take everything off the desk and sort it.
Keep only stuff important to work or school and find homes for everything else.
Wipe down the desk and neatly organize the items on the desk.
Also, wipe down your desk chair.
You are more likely to work if you feel comfortable, clean, and organized.
Organize your bookshelf too, if you have one.
Clear out the bookshelf and sort the items.
Next, wipe down the shelves and give it a minute to dry.
Next, organize books and keepsakes.
Remember, you DO NOT want to create a junk shelf so DO NOT put things that are irrelevent to the other items on the bookshelf.
Organize the clothes in your closet a certain way, First, clear out the closet.
Wash all your clothes.
If some do not fit, then take them to donate.
Vaccuum/mop/shampoo the floor and wipe down shelves, racks, and other parts of the closet.
Next, hang up delicates.
If you do not wear them often, move them to the back of the closet.
Then, hang up clothes/place on shelves the rest of your clothes.
Put like clothes together(sweaters with sweaters, dresses with dresses,jeans with jeans, ect.)
Now, organize your shoes neatly.
You should always keep shoes with clothes so in the morning, you can dress from the head to the shoes.
Take everything out of your dresser , fold the stuff, and wipe it all down ! Then, organize you clothes in the dresser.
Try to not place things on top of the dresser but if you do, DO NOT clutter it.
Tidy up anything else not listed in this article.
Be sure to wipe down all surfaces that you clean off.
If you have a mirror, a tv, or a computer in your room, wipe off the screens.
Take out the trashes and take the donated items to a donation station (EX.
Goodwill or a thrift store) Be sure that you have a place for everything but if it doesn't belong in your room, take it to where it does belong!
Dust , vacuum or mop , wash windows , and if you like, spray your favorite air freshener scent.
Then, open all the blinds!
Sunlight is the finishing touch!