treeRemove the country collectables that you have stowed away in the bottom of the cupboard.
They're not doing anyone any good in there.
Go through them and discard anything that doesn't please you; the local charity shop will gladly take such things.
For the remaining items, see if you can group them into themes, or rooms where you would like them displayed.
Find space for display.
Ideal places for displaying country collectables include:
Shelves - in kitchen cabinets, on walls, over the TV, in purpose-built display units, on window ledges, etc. Make use of unused space too - if you have a fireplace that is no longer used, for example, convert it into extra shelf space for your collectables.
This is a great spot because it is out of the way and not easily bumped into.
On the walls - hang pictures, cloth hangings, small items etc. on the wall, above doors and windows etc.
On small tables - small side tables make a great place to put country collectables
On beds - practical country collectables such as quilts look great on the bed; remove at night if you don't actually wish to use them.
Also consider hanging lace or linen from the railings of four-poster beds and adding doilies etc. to cushions upon the beds
Use disguises.
The beauty of country collectables is that they can be items that disguise blemishes.
If you have a table or chair with a stain, use a doily to cover the stain, or maybe a quilt or other cloth.
Use wooden boxes, hat boxes and dolls to also sit on things that are otherwise bland or ugly to look at.
Display with visual interest in mind.
Try to mix the items that you have on display so that there are height differences between the objects.
Visual interest will be created by placing larger things at the back, medium things in the middle and the smaller things at the front of shelves and display units.
Put heavy and large things at the base of your shelves or under chairs that are against a wall etc.
Keep within a theme.
If you put similar themes together, or similar colours, your display will have greater impact.
Typical country collectable colours include greens, dusky pinks, reds, blues, browns, creams and yellows.
Some typical country themes include: kitchenalia, dolls, toys, baking items, jewellery, vintage sewing, teapots, old photos, quilts, farm animals, crinoline ladies, lace, angels and cherubs, baby dresses, doilies, knitting paraphernalia, sewing machines, Clarice Cliff china, 1800s - 1930s magazines, antique bags, hatboxes, vases, patriotic memorabilia etc.