yourself.Take a piece of paper.
Make sure you have a flat surface under your paper, otherwise your drawing might appear shaky and messy.
If your work surface is rough, try placing a pile of paper under the sheet you're working on to create a smoother surface.
Newspaper or a magazine will also work, although the ink from the newsprint might transfer to your drawing paper, so consider having an additional paper layer over the top of the newspaper.
Draw a circle . Then draw a curved line over the top and on the bottom.
This will form the main shape of the eye.
Don't worry, your circle doesn't have to be perfect.
This example shows the roundness of the female manga eyes
In manga, the female eye tends to be drawn rounder than the male eye, so the circular shape is very important.
[1]
Draw another circle inside the main shape in the top right corner.
This will be a highlight.
Draw an oval in the centre of the main shape for the pupil.
Just make sure that the highlight is on top, so that it obscures the top right part of the pupil.
Shade the pupil in black.
The pupil shapes vary in manga, [2] so find what works best for you but be sure to include the highlight.
Starting at the top of the main circle, and avoiding the highlight and pupil, shade from dark to light, to the bottom of the eye.
You may want to use a thicker pencil for this step.
Add additional highlights, if wanted.
Bear in mind that highlights make the character look more feminine and child-like.
See the luscious lashes
Even though in real life, some males can have equally luscious eyelashes, when drawing the female eye, it is commonplace to emphasize the eyelashes by making them long and thick, as a sign of femininity.
An example of female manga eyes with a lot of shine
Female manga eyes tend to have a lot of "shine" added to them in contrast to the duller male manga eye.
[] Add some extra sparkle to the pupils if wished.
Using a black outlining pen or a felt tip, outline the eye, leaving the shading without an outline.
Erase the pencil lines, again leaving the shading.