for.Write it down.
Make a list . You know best what you need to take when you travel, so there's no list here.
You can consult any of various packing lists online for ideas about what to take to certain locations or for certain conditions.
Include items for all seasons on your list.
If you use sunscreen mostly in summer and lip balm mostly in winter, include both.
Gather the items you will need.
Remember, you are leaving this bag packed , so these are not the items you use every day at home.
Get containers and pour in your preferred shampoo and conditioner.
Use the same products you use at home.
It's cheapest to buy stuff like shampoo in the larger sizes and pour them into travel-sized containers, and you know exactly how your favorite shampoo will work in your hair.
Alternatively, if you aren't particular about things like soap and shampoo, you can collect travel sizes for free from hotel rooms and keep them in your kit for when you are places where they are not provided.
Wrap shampoo bottles in plastic bags, in case of undesired opening.
Before you travel with anything you don't normally use at home, try it at home before taking it on the road.
Timbuktu is not the place to discover that you're allergic to something, or that you can't stand using it.
Trying your kit at home is also a good way to find out how quickly you use up things like shampoo and toothpaste.
Many things come in travel sizes.
Buy duplicates of items that will go in your kit.
Buy a separate razor from the one you use at home (this might be a good place for a disposable razor), a travel-sized tube of toothpaste, and so on.
Look for items you already have around.
Do you already have a spare toothbrush , hair brush, tweezers, or nail file?
Choose a bag . Try one of the many commercial bags available, or you can simply use a plastic zipper bag.
If you're buying a bag, look for one with many separate compartments, so that items don't get jumbled up.
Some toiletries bags are designed to hang from a built-in hook.
If you're traveling by air and have toiletries in your carry-on bag, you will be required to take any liquids out and have them in clear view.
In this case, U.S. departures limit liquids to 3 oz.
and require you put them in a clear one-quart zipper bag.
Packing them in an easy-to-access location is extra convenient.
Try loading solids in a separate clear bag if you run out of space.
Load up your toiletries bag.
You should end up with a complete, compact bag of only the things you need to have to travel, but all the things you need for any trip.