OKReview the 3 main long-term care choices :
"Home Care" provides a home health aide to do light housekeeping, toileting, bathing, cooking, and other assistance in getting around or performing the activities of daily living (ADLs).
A home health aide is not legally authorized to administer medications or perform most other health care procedures.
"Assisted Living Facilities" (ALFs) provide an apartment, common dining areas, custodial care and often an array of social activities and other perks.
A "nursing home" provides-hour skilled nursing care with the ability to administer medications, rehabilitation and some medical procedures.
Understand the 3 methods of financing long-term care :
One choice is to privately pay for the care but at $4,000 to $15,000 per month in a nursing home, most people cannot afford to do that without getting wiped out.
Another method is to access long-term care insurance benefits but most people lack adequate coverage.
A third option, the only other way to pay for long-term care, is the Medicaid program.
Medicaid is based on financial need but there are legal methods of protecting your assets so that you may qualify for Medicaid without having to first spend your money or give it away.
DO NOT spend all of the money and then be solely reliant on government benefits.
Medicaid is the only government program that is available to most people to cover long-term care costs and it does not cover everything.
If you spend all of your money and then go on Medicaid, which is the case for most Medicaid recipients, you will have nothing left to pay for all of the services not covered by Medicaid.
Medicaid will cover the cost of long-term care but it sure helps to have money set aside to cover important extras.
DO NOT give away your assets : This is a very common pitfall.
The government "looks back" 5 years (3 years for gifts made prior to February 8, 2006) to determine whether you gave away money.
If the government decides you made a gift during that time, you will be rendered ineligible for Medicaid for a period of time (and that period of time could be many years or just a few months depending upon how much was given away, your state's rules and laws and when the gift was made).
Gifting can sometimes make sense but you should do this only after consulting with an expert.
DO a new deed to help protect the home.
In some states, a lawyer can prepare a special kind of "life estate" deed that allows the property to automatically pass to your children or other heirs upon your death and without any Medicaid disqualification.
This is not done by simply adding people to your deed, another common mistake that almost always results in disqualification.
DO the Medicaid-friendly durable power of attorney : Have an Elder Law Attorney create a Durable Power of Attorney that takes into account Medicaid and other aging issues.
A regular durable power of attorney may not be sufficient.
This is the single most important document you can have because it allows you to pick someone to step in and do for you if you cannot do for yourself.
The power of attorney has many built-in protections but a trusted person is still necessary and there is some risk of exploitation that must be discussed with your Elder Law Attorney.
Consider creating Medicaid Trust Agreements.
Trust agreements are artificial legal entities that can own assets and/or income.
Some trusts help you to convert countable assets to non-countable assets.
Read about special needs trusts and income-only trusts (aka qualified income trusts) and discuss with an Elder Law Attorney whether such a trust would help you.
For example, in some states, even if a person is over the Medicaid income cap, that person can still qualify if the income is going into an "Income-Only Trust" instead of into that person's name alone.
Transfer money to a child without it being counted as a disqualifying gift.
If the circumstances warrant, you can transfer money to a child or other trusted person in exchange for care services.
If the value of these services meets or exceeds the amount of money transferred, the government cannot count the transfer as a gift.
There could be tax consequences but the taxes would usually be a pittance compared to the savings.
The Florida court case of Thomas vs. Department of Children and Families forms a precedent on the use of personal service contracts in Medicaid planning.
Consider "Just Saying No" to spousal impoverishment : If one spouse is going into a nursing home, it is very possible for the "well spouse" to be left destitute due to the other spouse's care costs.
Most states allow the "well spouse" to opt-out of having their assets counted against the other spouse's Medicaid eligibility.