communityFind the Rabbi - Halacha, or Jewish Law, bans interfaith marriage, and does not recognize such marriages as valid.
Therefore, all Orthodox and Conservative rabbis who recognize the binding authority of Halacha refrain from officiating at interfaith weddings.
Even though their movements do not always recognize the binding authority of Halacha, most Reform and Reconstructionist rabbis tend to defer to it on this issue.
Some Reform and Reconstructionist rabbis will officiate at interfaith weddings, but in agreeing to do so, they may attach various conditions to their willingness to officiate.
For example, they may agree to marry an interfaith couple, but they will not officiate on the Sabbath.
They may refuse to co-officiate with non-Jewish clergy, or require the couple to agree to raise their children within the Jewish faith.
The rabbis may also ask the couple to join their congregation, participate in courses on Judaism and/or attend pre-marital counseling sessions.
Almost all rabbis who will officiate at interfaith weddings will not officiate in a church, or allow any mention of Jesus in the ceremony.
For some couples, these conditions present no problems, but other couples may be less ready to agree to them, and for the latter group, it can be very difficult to find a rabbi who will marry them.
Still, there are a small number of rabbis out there who will officiate for you.
Some are bona fide rabbis.
But there are also individuals in the market place who call themselves rabbis and who officiate at interfaith weddings, even though they have not undergone any type of serious training, and indeed have very little knowledge.
They have obtained credentials from unaccredited institutions, and usually spend very little time studying much of anything.
Just as you would not want your attorney, doctor, plumber or mechanic to be someone who has earned his or her credentials on the fly, it is probably not a good idea to have an officiating rabbi who did!
It is not hard to distinguish between the bona fide rabbis and those who are not.
If a person s rabbinic ordination was obtained after a rigorous course of study lasting at least five years, his or her ordination is most likely acceptable.
If a person s ordination followed something less rigorous - there are actual cases of people becoming ordained after studying for just a few weeks, or taking some type of take home test buyer beware.
Confirm the rabbi matches your needs.
Once you find a rabbi, you want to make sure that that rabbi is the rabbi for you.
You don t just want a rabbi who is willing to officiate; you want the right rabbi, the one who will officiate a ceremony that will leave you and your families with pleasant and wonderful lasting memories.
Compromising on quality is just not an option.
So what should you look for to make sure you have found the right person?
The most important thing is to make sure that you find a rabbi who is truly interested in you as a couple, and makes it clear in word and action that the wedding is about you and the celebration of your love for each other.
He or she should take time to get to know you, as individuals and as a couple.
After all, how can a wedding ceremony be personalized to who you are, if your rabbi does not take the time to get to know you as persons?
He or she should be someone who is warm, friendly, truly passionate about people; someone with a good sense of humor who does not take him or herself too seriously.
This will help him or her create, with you, a ceremony that has that sought-after blend of seriousness and lightheartedness, something that sometimes eludes officiants.
The ideal rabbi is the one who will build the ceremony around you, not try to fit or shoehorn you into a preconceived notion of a ceremony that he or she already has.
The right rabbi is someone whom you won t hesitate to tell what you want, and with whom you feel comfortable sharing what you don t want.
He or she should be there for you throughout the process of preparation and obviously the wedding itself, and should be just an email or a phone call away.
One rabbi personally commits to couples that he will return emails or phone calls within 24 hours (unless he is officiating outside the country), since he understands that planning a wedding can be sometimes stressful, and that prompt replies can help alleviate some of the stress.
Create the ceremony of your dreams with your rabbi.
The rabbi should have a plan for the preparation and creation of your ceremony, and should be able to lay it out clearly for you.
You want to feel confident that the rabbi will stay on top of things.
At the same time, he or she needs to be flexible enough to adjust that plan to your needs and your schedule, while keeping the ball rolling, all the same.
Ideally, this plan should consist of three or four meetings, where you and your rabbi carefully develop your ceremony.
The first meeting should focus, first and foremost, on getting to know each other.
It should be at that time that the rabbi lays out that clear plan for the development of the ceremony.
That first meeting should involve many open-ended questions, general and specific, about what you want to see in your ceremony.
It is a good sign if you answer many of these questions with, Wow, that is a good question; we need to think about that, because that means that you will think about it!
It is really helpful if the rabbi can supply you with a summary of the meeting that highlights those items you wanted to think about.
The rabbi should also suggest a book or two that can help you learn more about interfaith ceremonies, to assist you in developing your ceremony together with your rabbi.
During the meetings that follow, as you work together with the rabbi, with his or her guidance, things should gradually gel and fall into place.
In the final meeting you should be able to together review the entire ceremony, with a written copy, based on your discussions, in front of you.
(One rabbi tries to email a draft to couples a few weeks before the final meeting, so they can actually begin this discussion by email in advance of the final meeting.)
You should feel comfortable to make any changes, additions or deletions that you feel are needed.
The rabbi should also discuss technical details and pointers, so there are no surprises, and your ceremony goes smoothly and seamlessly.
If you choose to have a co-officiant, you will of course want to meet with him or her as well.
The rabbi should also make sure that the co-officiant is part and parcel of the ceremony planning process.
(Some co-officiants have never co-officiated with a rabbi before.)
You may even want to have one meeting with both co-officiants together.