comfortable.Think of a hobby that might interest you.
It might be an interest that you always wished you had time to explore, but never had the time or money required to pursue your interest.
A stamp collection
Collect things for a cosmo magazine Look at the walls in your post office, and think about collecting stamps and what you might need to do to start and maintain a stamp collection.
Think of other items you might like to collect, for example, coins, dolls or chocolate wrappers.
You will need to consider how you will get your collectibles, where you will put them and whether you'll display them.
And don't forget to think about swaps with family!
Discover art for a hobby.
Have you ever gone to a museum, looked at the paintings on the walls, and wondered if you could do the same thing?
How about trying painting for yourself - in oils, acrylics or watercolors?
Or maybe try drawing with charcoal or colored pencils.
One particularly wonderful way to get involved in your community and make art at the same time is to participate in painting a mural.
This will last for a long time and everyone in your community will see it and smile.
Art does have a long learning curve, don't measure your progress against other people's drawings.
Measure it against your own past drawings, date everything, take classes or borrow/buy instruction books and do all the projects.
Tracing, measuring methods like using a grid and using photographs as references are not "cheating."
There is no cheating in art, unless it's breaking the rules of a specific contest.
Write novels and short stories.
Every year an online novel writing group at http://www.nanowrimo.org gets together to turn the world's loneliest art form into something like the Boston Marathon.
If you ever wanted to write a book, go ahead and give it a try.
That's the biggest but there are other online writing challenges and writing groups you can get along with.
Many areas also have offline writing groups.
Print on Demand technology has made self publishing a volume of your poetry, your novel or your stories reasonably priced for a hobbyist.
Like art, there's a learning curve to getting good enough at this for more than your immediate friends and family to like it, but time will improve every hobby and only you know the story you want to tell.
Team sport
Enjoy sport as a hobby.
Watch soccer, basketball, golf, athletics or tennis tournaments on television or at your local sports ground.
Do you feel that a sport is something that you would love to learn?
Think about what it would cost, and the time it would take to learn and play.
Do you have the funds available for this type of hobby?
Would you have the patience it would take to really learn to play or train for any of these sports?
Would you rather play a team sport or an individual sport?
Maybe there are friends or family members who already have equipment and uniforms you can have, as well as tips for how to begin your chosen sport.
Ask them about their experiences and listen to their suggestions.
A restored vintage fully transistorized Vega 312 stereo radiogram (early 1970s)
Maybe electronics is the hobby for you ? But electronics as hobby is not single and solid; it has many different interesting branches.
Amateur radio, audio, microcontrollers, robotics, and the restoration of various vintage equipment are a few examples.
But it's up to you which of these branches to choose - or combine several if you wish!
Take up an outdoor activity.
Maybe you are an "outdoors" person, someone who would enjoy outdoor hobbies, such as fishing, hiking, flying remote controlled model airplanes or kites in the park, water skiing, camping or cycling.
Think about how much you like different kinds of weather (hot, cold, rain, sun, snow etc.) and getting close to nature.
If this sounds like something you would really enjoy doing, then investigate how you could start learning one or more of these activities.
Often these outdoors activities will have a club you can join, or you could get your friends together and try an outdoors activity as a group.
Browse a Craft Store
Take up an indoor activity.
Maybe you are more of an "indoors person".
Perhaps you'd enjoy knitting, sewing , doing puzzles and jigsaws , painting, making ceramics etc. Browse around a craft store and find various craft ideas and supplies.
Ask friends and family if they have craft supplies and patterns that they're not using.
Other places to look for ideas include games stores, toy stores, hobby stores, your local library or activity center and school.
Combine indoor and outdoor activities.
Of course, there's nothing that says you can't be both an indoors and an outdoors person!
Maybe in summer you love to cycle and in winter you love to make matchstick castles.
Think about which seasons you would like to enjoy your hobby in.
Miniatures to make
Take up woodworking.
Look through the Internet at various woodworking hobbies.
Things such as toys, desk top items, furniture, games etc. are all ideas to make out of wood.
If you have a work room in a garage, perhaps you would like to buy a project kit like a miniature doll house and build and decorate it all yourself.
You might even enjoy making the miniature furniture yourself instead of buying it ready-made.
Consider miniatures.
Miniature trains, racing cars, toy soldiers, gaming pieces etc. are an intriguing hobby that will include painting, construction work, craft and more.
Making miniatures suits someone with an eye for detail and a lot of patience.
This hobby can be as elaborate or as simple as you like; many of the best miniatures are made from things you find around the house and use your imagination to turn into something else.
Try browsing through wikiHow.
There are a lot of articles to read, and some are very interesting!
Wait until you have researched the initial cost, and the long term expense and time needed before jumping into a hobby.
Make sure you can afford it, and have the time to spare.
As you begin, start small.
For instance, you can do a lot of astronomy with the naked eye.
If you have learned and continued with that, the next step should be purchasing a good set of binoculars.
Invest in the fancy telescope only when you are sure you are committed.
Search the Internet or visit a local library or community center for more information.
Look for information related to the hobby you are interested in.
Find out if you would have to buy supplies via Internet, or if you have suppliers that live in your area.
If there is something on the Internet that you want and you don't have a credit card, ask a parent or a friend to help you.
Sometimes even a store owner is the person to ask, as they can order the supplies in for you using their own contacts.
Get a coach.
For example if you always wanted to be competitive in swimming find a swim coach.
You are never too old to start.
Get started on your hobby ! Once you have decided which hobby best suits you in every way and you have bought or borrowed the equipment, clothing, tools and anything else you need, it is time to get it happening.
Expect to start slowly at first, while learning, so have patience.
You might even find a club to join and meet others with similar interests.
This is a great way to make friends and to exchange ideas.
Display your hobby or compete.
Once you become very good at your chosen hobby, you might like to enter competitions to test your skills or to display your work.
Think of sports competitions, fairs or shows for craft and artwork, club meetings for show-and-tell or perhaps even a school or college event is a good chance to show off your skills.
Go to the book store.
Look in the magazine section and see if there is anything you find interesting.
If there is, for example you like Newsweek, maybe a job in politics.