instincts.Browse your local online personals.
If you can, go for more community based online classifieds like Craigslist.com , Gumtree.com or britlist.com.
Community based sites save you time because it means just about everyone on the site will be in your area and the site itself won't ask you a lot of personal questions or let a computer program determine potential compatibility with someone.
If you do use a site that employs such profiling techniques, remember what each person has to say about himself or herself will tell you a lot more about the individual than how much money she claims to make or what his favorite food is.
Post an online personal ad yourself.
It's easy!
Just be casual.
There's no need to put on the hard sell or take yourself too seriously.
Have fun with your ad.
Throw your sense of humor into it!
Give some of your interests, but be specific.
Don't just say you like music.
Who doesn't like music?
List some bands and composers you like.
If you like to exercise, what kind of exercise do you do?
Oh, and always state your age and give the age range your looking within.
Your honesty will invariably save a lot of time.
Strike up an email conversation with anyone whose ad or response seems interesting.
Don't be too shy.
Remember he or she is trying to find out what kind of person you are too.
Ask about favorite movies or pets or interests.
Get the ball rolling and see what happens.
If, however, after three or four emails nothing at all really peaks your interest, it is sometimes best to just politely say you don't think the two of you would make a good match and go on to learn more about the next person.
Invite someone you've corresponded with for a few days to join you in a phone conversation.
You can get a reasonable sense of potential chemistry on the phone, at least enough to see if you want to meet.
It will probably be awkward for both of you at first, but if you keep the conversation casual and friendly you will be fine.
Arrange a meeting once you feel fairly comfortable with the other person on the phone--give yourself time, this may take you a few conversations.
Always meet in a public place where you are sure there will be lots of people.
Tell a friend where you are going or better yet bring one along.
Any reasonable person you are thinking of meeting will be nervous too and will understand these precautions.