up.Be vague.
If they inquire about where you're going to lunch, give a general area like, down to the mall, or meeting with a friend to talk about your weekend plans.
Act uncertain.
If they inquire about your weekend, let them know you're not sure about it and that's why you're meeting with your friend to plan things.
Be noncommittal.
If they ask that they can come too, let them know you still haven't gotten the details down as to how many people will be allowed to come depending on the space provided.
Take charge of the situation.
If they don't get the hint after that, be a little more strong with them, and tell them, "I'm sorry I'm in a rush to get going, on a project/going to lunch, and pretend like you didn't hear them as you run off to where ever.
Then make a visit to your manager/supervisor and ask for more help.
If you're both involved in a task and personally probing questions start, either say "Can we focus on the issue at hand, please" or (spoken in a 'matter of fact way')"I'm not really in the mood to talk about me, and suggest current events as an option".
If they ask you cross-examination style questions, jokingly say "When did you become a cop ?", then quickly change direction of the conversation to you, a friend or family member knowing a cop, and start discussing what they think, all the while getting ready for a toilet break (nudge nudge).
Be succinct, to the point and be concise.
You do not have to give them all the details and also be honest.
If you are unsure or don't want them to know what you are doing, don't lie to them, tell them to mind their own business, or get defensive, just say "I don't know".
Sometimes it can be enough to hush them up.
If they persist, just carry on saying I don't know.
Eventually, they will stop asking.
Lying and getting defensive only makes them think you have something to hide and it can cause the nosey person(s) to bother you more or get angry.
If they ask you questions that lead you to divulging sensitive information, don't give the information out.
Just say you don't know or you can't remember and go to your parents, boss, supervisor, friend, or any person you trust when the nosey person(s) are not about.
Tell them as little as possible about you, your friends and your family's sensitive information and business.
This goes for letters, email, instant messaging, as well as face-to-face.
Beware, as their questions can be ingredients and recipes for them to gossip and blab!
Tell them calmly that you do not wish to talk about that subject.
If they persist on asking or they ask why you don't want to talk about it, just say you are not comfortable talking about it or walk away.