year.Lay out a plan for your forum.
You want to know what your forum's theme will be.
Going into a website blind with no idea of what it will be like is pointless.
Yes, experimenting is a good idea but having a solid plan up front will prevent a lot of problems when you decide to get it setup.
Select a forum software.
Having a forum software (or backbone) is the key essential to a forum.
Without it, all you will have is a plan, and a hosting account.
There are many different types of software out there written in different coding languages.
Make sure you understand what your host supports and what your software will require.
MySQL and PHP are the most common requirements.
Some free choices, are SMF and PHPBB.
A paid choice is vBulletin.
Find a host.
Search around the internet to find a good solid host.
Of course paid hosts are better but using a free host in the beginning will allow you to see what you are getting into.
Upload the forum software to your hosting account.
When you apply for a host you will recieve your hosting accounts information which will include (MySQL link, username, and password; FTP link, username, and password; account username, and password; and a link to your CPanel).
When you are ready to upload, you will need a FTP program (FileZilla and SmartFTP are good examples).
Open the FTP program and drag and drop into the public HTML folder.
The folders name will vary so ask your host what folder to upload to unless you know what folder it is. To customize the URL, while in the FTP program (before you upload everything) create a forum inside the public HTML folder and call it forum, or forums, pretty much anything you want to call it.
Create a database.
Log into your CPanel (using your account name and password) go to the section named databases or MySQL databases.
Make a database.
Make it with a short name (i.e. forumdb).
Your hosting account name will usually come in front of the database's name (i.e. b18_999999_forumdb).
You will need this in the step below.
Install the forum software.
Visit the URL of the forum and an install prompt will be present (if everything went as planned.
If it is not present, troubleshoot and if all else fails, contact your forum software company).
When you begin the installation, you will need your MySQL database information.
Enter your MySQL database information and proceed to the next step.
Depending on your forum software, the steps may differ (it will usually guide you through the process).
Usually 1-2 steps later you will be asked to make an admin account (YOUR ACCOUNT).
Give it a name (custom) and a password (custom) as well as an e-mail.
When this is done, it may either begin to install all the MySQL tables or your installation may be finished.
Like it says above, it differs from software to software.
When you are done, be sure to delete the install.php file (via FTP).
The installation may delete it automatically.
If you forget to delete it, it poses a risk to your forum security.
Give it a color scheme.
In this step, you can make your own theme (if you have knowledge in XML, CSS, and Graphics) or you can download a free or paid theme.
When you obtain a skin (as they are called) you may have to upload it via FTP or via your forums Admin CP.
Like the step above, it differs from software to software.
Begin the construction.
At this time, begin the building process.
This will require the addition of categories and individual Forums and Sub-Forums.
categories come first, then forums, then sub-forums.
It is up to you to decide the names of categories and forums as well as their content.
Make your rules.
Be it global forum rules, or rules specifically designed for a certain section, make the rules so that the forum can be used effectively and to minimize spam (a major culprit on forums).
Hire some staff members.
When starting off, one to two admins (including yourself) will be all that you need for administrators.
Look for people who are interested in a Global/Super Moderator position and if they don't want that much responsibility, offer them a Moderator position.
It is recommended that these people are trustworthy.
Make membergroups.
Make forum member groups so that you can organize your members.
The most common are Administrator, Global/Super Moderator, Moderator, Member, and Banned.
Most software allow unlimited membergroups but too many can make organization confusing, tedious, and time consuming.
Add your mods/add-ons.
You should specify which mods you would like to have (chatbox, Captcha system, Top Stats, etc.).
Like before, installation of these mods will differ.
Make some graphics.
Most new forums make an affiliate icon, a userbar, as well as a banner to help with advertising.
Making these is fairly simple.
Google for some tutorials.