Foster child's consistency.
Have a schedule for homework, playtime, meals, bath, bedtime and entertainment.
Keep to the schedule so your kids know what to expect and be ready on time.
With a consistent nighttime schedule, it will be easier to have a consistent morning schedule.
Bathe the child at night before school, and right before bedtime.
Having them bathe between dinner and bedtime promotes a sleepy feeling for them too.
If school starts around 8am, a bedtime at 8pm or shortly thereafter also promote a good night's rest.
This is important because you're going to want to wake them around 6am.
(if your child goes to bed and constantly wakes you before 5am, on their own, and without being awaken by others, then try bumping their bedtime back 1/2 hour to one hour).
Finish your parental duties.
This is one of the most important steps, if not the most important.
Do your best to complete your parental duties like: make dinner.
Make sure they get the day's homework done (or more).
Urge good hygiene.
Get the kids set for the next day.
Finish any pertinent personal buisness, your chores, and whatever else you need to get done for the day.
If you're lucky and you have time, you can then enjoy your hobbies without falling behind!
Bedtime for Mom and Dad.
Above all else, give yourself time to rest well for the day(s) to come.
Avoid over indulgence in alcohol if you drink.
Try not to stay up past 11 at the latest because if you take your kids to school in the morning at 8 you'll need energy and a clear head to keep up with your kids in the morning.
Wake up call.
Try to get up at 6am, even if it's very hard.
If you have trouble, go to bed earlier and wake up earlier.
If you need to, shower the night before to get an extra jump, but if you stay on top of it and wake up at 6 you should have time to shower in the morning if you'd like.
Go out of your room and wake up your kid(s).
Once they're awake have them eat breakfast.
Cereal and milk is easy, but there are other quick alternatives.
Get yourself dressed.
When the kids finish eating, have them get dressed.
Have them get their own things together for school, but still double check their completion, to teach responsibility.
This is things like getting their shoes on, backpacks and lunches packed, teeth and hair brushed, get a jacket, etc.