weeks.Find out about your child's school - Whether your child is returning to the same school or starting at a new one, it's always a good idea to get the lowdown on any changes at the school.
Is there a new principal?
Who are your child's teachers?
What's going on with the curriculum?
What tests will be administered to your child?
As most school districts start in September, schools tend to be open a month before.
You can call the school directly and speak with an administrator or visit the school for information.
Get your child into the back-to-school routine - During the summer, staying up late and sleeping in are the norm.
But as the start of school draws near, children need to get back into a routine.
About three weeks before school starts, have your child go to bed 15 minutes earlier at night and get up 15 minutes earlier in the morning.
When school is two weeks away, have your child go to bed 30 minutes earlier at night and get up thirty minutes earlier in the morning.
When your child is about to start school in a week, have him go to bed an hour earlier at night and get up an hour earlier in the morning.
By developing a bedtime routine, your child will be less resistant to the early morning wake-up calls to get ready for school.
In addition, if you're not already doing this, have your child lay out his clothes before he goes to bed.
That will teach him to get organized and be prepared in case he (or you) are running late in the morning.
Go over the three R's - Regardless if you're a teacher or not, we all have knowledge to pass on to our kids.
What were your strengths in school?
Reading?
Writing?
Science?
Math?
Whatever your favorite subject, use what you've learned in school and in life to go over some of the basics with your child.
In essence, you can "play" school with your child.
It should be in a room without distractions (i.e. no TV or video games) and geared towards learning (i.e. den, family library or home office).
A run through of the basics should take no more than 30 minutes to an hour and should be done 2-3 times a week.
This is an excellent opportunity to see where your child needs help and to pass that information on to his teachers.
Prepare the supplies - Depending on your child's grade level (K0-12), the type of supplies needed will vary.
Some schools sends a list out a couple of weeks before the school year.
If no such list is provided, what your child needs for school can be determined by a trip to OfficeMax, Staples or Wal-mart.
Every August, those stores provide free school supply lists for their customers.
They're pretty concise and arranged by grade level.
You can again contact the school directly to see what supplies your child will need.