period.Ask around your family.
While most people believe they know their families quite well, most do not.
You never know when a distant cousin or uncle may have ended up becoming a lawyer, which you, of course, can use to your advantage financially.
If you are sure you aren't related to a lawyer, though, it wouldn't hurt to ask your family all the same.
Connections never hurt, and it is possible that one of your relatives knows someone.
Talk to your friends.
This is another way you can get lawyers to work for you for less- the "friend rate" is something some lawyers implement for when a close friend or collegue needs aid in the lawyer-ly sense.
If you are not aware of a friend that is a lawyer, though, you two probably aren't very close, and so the "friend rate" may be a bit too much to ask.
Find a volunteer lawyer.
Most areas have volunteer lawyer organizations or Legal Aid associations, but keep in mind that these organizations have many eligibility requirements for their services.
Also, there is a huge demand for a finite number of attorneys.
If your income isn't low enough to qualify for free legal aid through a clinic (usually only indigent clients qualify), contact the bar association in your state to see if it has a "moderate means" program, through which the bar association will refer you to an attorney who is willing to work at reduced rates for clients who aren't technically indigent.
Often the "moderate means" rates are about $50 an hour--usually a fraction of what an attorney ordinarily would charge.
Check a local law school to see if they have a law clinic or similar program that allows law students (under supervision of a licensed attorney) to work on behalf of low income clients.
This is actually a very good way to snap up very promising law students- while they may not have much experience, the law students that would be allowed to participate in this type of program are normally about the top of the class.
It's a good chance, so if you have it, you shouldn't throw it out the window immediately.
Ask local lawyers for a "payment plan" of sorts.
Explain your situation to the lawyer in question, give him/her your financial statement, and discuss what you need done.
If they believe they can lower their rate, or make it so you pay a certain amount over a certain amount of time, you may be in luck.
Get a loan.
This may be the only thing you can do in some cases, especially if your life literally rests upon getting off the charge.
Try and ask family members for money, and then branch off from there- only go to a professional money lender if no one has a cent to spare anywhere at all.
Keep in mind that this may lead to more legal troubles if you have bad credit and know you cannot pay the lenders back any time soon.
Be clear and upfront, and hopefully you'll get the money you need to get the attorney you desire.
Hold a yard sale.
A slightly obvious one, selling off your unused furniture and junk may be the best way to afford a lawyer.
Don't have enough junk to sell?
Ask a friend if they have anything that you could sell, but be clear as to why you want the items, otherwise they may give you something as a gift, not realizing you are going to sell it off to whomever has twenty bucks upfront.
Offer a trade.
This is a rather fun one- do you manage a restaurant, or own a small business that you know the attorney you want frequents?
Offer free food or service at your business in return for helping you out with your legal problem.
While many lawyers may be offended by such an offer, others will delight in the idea.
If you don't own the business in which you work, ask the person who does if this plan could be permitted.
It may be a stretch, and the attorney may have to also do some extra work for the business, but it is a rather simple way to get a lawyer for no actual cash.
This also works if you have a semi-valuable item that you don't really want in your home; just skip the yard sale, and offer a trade.
This is a bit more difficult to do with no cash, but you may very well get a very good discount if you give the lawyer the semi-valuable item.