food)SnacksDrinksCandyRemember who you are, and remember who you are trying to impress.
Do not try to be someone else, because your fraudulence will shine through.
Hold his attention with funny anecdotes and stories, but no corny jokes.
It may lead to an awkward moment.
Laughing often breaks the ice, and everyone loves someone with a sense of humor.
Most people love funny stories, but nothing too dirty, especially on a first date.
Dress and look sophisticated.
Unless you are taking her to the beach, you probably should not be wearing flip-flops or shorts on a first date.
No matter what you do for a living, let her know that you enjoy what you do and take pride in it.
Don't be too boastful - people usually find that to be rude and offensive.
Do not complain about everything.
Family, friends, work, boss, car, weather, taxes, and gasoline prices should stay out of the conversation.
Instead, try to smile and let her know that you are a fun person - not someone boring who she has to talk to.
Buy her flowers.
Girls love to receive them.
If you want to get her something small instead, buy a candle or a picture frame (not with your picture in it).
You want her to know that you were thinking about them while you were apart and that you remember what she likes.
Just don't go overboard.
Be courteous.
Hold the door and help her with her coat; pull out chairs, do not interrupt her, do not talk on the cellphone on a date, and do not look at other people in the room.
Ask her about herself.
Try not to be too nosy - don't ask any personal questions.
Make her feel good about her career, hobbies, interests, and opinions.
Listen attentively as well.
People generally hate it when they are asked the same question twice because it tells them that you were not listening the first time.
Do not pry into personal matters, and do not tell about private matters in your life.
Compliment her.
Tell her she looks lovely, smells good, is intelligent, has a beautiful house - anything that will make her smile.
It counts.