friends!!determination.Give your children clear boundaries.
Knowing exactly what they can and cannot do is the foundation of happy and successful children that are honest and respectful of their parents, other adults and themselves.
Learn which behaviors deserve a spanking : This includes lying and open disobedience.
You must be fair with children.
Spilling things, nose-picking, bed-wetting, arguing, even stealing are normal childhood behaviors that, while they may require action on the part of the parent to help a child mature, they are not spanking offenses.
You must let toddlers, children, teens and young adults make mistakes and have normal childhood behavior that is age appropriate without making them miserable about it.
Never harm your child.
Any spanking should be meant to get their attention and establish your authority.
Never spank them hard enough that they are going to feel it later.
Always spank the child only on the child s clothed bottom and only with your open hand.
Cool off first.
If you are angry, do not attempt to give your child a spanking.
Tell them you need to think about this for a while and let yourself cool off and then re-evaluate the situation.
Do not hit your child with implements or objects.
Using belts, switches, spoons, paddles or worse on your child will never build the kind of respect and love that a properly administered spanking will.
Only use your open hand on the child's clothed bottom.
Know when to enforce discipline with spanking.
Once children are old enough to understand "no," they are old enough for a spanking.
This could occur as early as approximately 18 months, but varies by child.
Be mindful that the force and amount of spanks should be reduced (i.e. a quick pat on the bottom) for very small children but the framework should be similar.
If properly used, once a child has reached the age of 6 or 7, spanking will hopefully never be necessary again.
On the other hand, if you have never spanked and a child is already 9 or 10, it is probably too late to begin once the patterns of parenting have been so firmly established.
Do not spank too frequently ! Again, spanking should be reserved only for the lying and open disobedience, and NOT used whenever one feels annoyed.
If you do it all the time, it will lose any effectiveness that it might have and is just plain mean.
Give them one warning.
If you think that you were not clear the first time, you might have to clarify, but do not give warning after warning and expect any child to be compliant.
They will always know that they can push and push and have their way once you give up.
The child must clearly understand that there will be one warning and that s it.
If you do this, they will obey after one warning, if you give them ten warnings, they will probably never take you seriously.
But please, you must take great care when disciplining your child, be fair, be clear and make sure that you understand what is going on; you should not turn back once you have declared "you've just earned yourself a spanking".
Earn the respect of your child by being fair; you must also convince your children that when they behave in certain negative ways, the discipline will be quick and certain.
In this way, they will learn the clear boundaries and seek to not overstep them to earn your trust.
Tell them that they are going to be spanked.
Take them to a neutral area.
If in the home, it should be out of sight of the other children.
If at a restaurant or store, take them outside or to a corner where there are few onlookers.
You never want to embarrass a child in front of siblings or other people any more than necessary for the moment.
Once in the proper location, carefully explain why they are getting a spanking and precisely the behavior that got them in this inevitable situation.
Once the decision is made, do not consider turning back unless you become genuinely convinced that you have misjudged the situation.
Explain what is going to happen: [i.e. at age] "You are going to get 5 swats, and then we are going to talk about it for a minute, then it will be over."
If possible have the child lay across your lap with their bottom up.
Deliver each swat with an open hand only on their clothed bottom and only hard enough that they feel mild discomfort.
Sit them up at eye level, repeat the explanation, and have them agree that they will not repeat the behavior again.
Ask them to apologize.
Assure them that this is the end of the punishment (however, certain offenses or lack of remorse may require a time of quiet thought) and that you are not going to be angry with them about it.
Tell them that you love them.