chocolate.Choose a good birthday party location near or at your house :
There is usually no better place to hold your child's birthday party than your own home.
Children are usually better behaved in the home environment and much easier to control.
It's always wise to make sure any valuable items are stored away in case of accidents.
Also, outdoor parties can be a lot of fun, whether it's held in one of the local parks or simply in your own backyard.
If you feel your house is too small to accommodate the number of children you are planning to invite, then booking a local hall is a sensible option.
Choose carefully and try to find one that has a carpeted floor.
When holding your party in a hall, be sure to make a thorough checklist of everything you will need to take with you for the party (Don't forget your music, prizes, matches or a lighter to light the birthday cake candles with!).
Shows at a local restaurant can also be a great option for certain families.
Involve the children in party planning and preparation.
Surprises are fun, but the kids like to get involved in planning, and this is a time when the kids are motivated to be especially helpful.
Let your child(ren) help plan the theme, location, guest list, menu, games, etc. They can do lots of things, like: write invitations or create them on the computer with fun computer paper, fill loot bags, blow up balloons, decorate, even help 'child-proof', or straighten the house.
Decide on the time length of the party.
One to two hours is more than enough time for a toddler or pre-school party.
For older children two to three hours is recommended.
Decorate the location.
Finding the party venue can be a real headache for your guests - especially at night!
A bunch of balloons (not just one - it will pop!)
tied to your mailbox will help your guests and the entertainer find your home.
Provide name tags for the guests as they arrive.
It is a good idea to provide each child with a sticky label badge bearing his or her name.
People tend to respond better when they are addressed by name.
Have a box or bag ready to put all the presents in as the children arrive so they can be kept safe to open later.
If the birthday child is opening presents during the party, try to make sure they are removed to a safe place afterwards.
Keep the children busy.
Make sure you have good party food (see the 'Things You'll Need' section).
Have the party bags ready and named so they can be handed to each child as they leave.
For drop off parties, parents usually start arriving about 15 minutes prior to the scheduled end.