different.Go to college.
While it is possible to get into the Peace Corps without going to college, to do that you need to have (a comparable amount of) experience in a field that you will be working in abroad.
For example: Someone with a lot of on-the-ground knowledge about agriculture (like a farmer) would probably be able to get into the Agriculture sector.
You also need to have at least two semesters of language classes at the college-level (however, this is sometimes a negotiable factor, especially if you have skills that are highly desirable by the Peace Corps).
Do your research.
Your obviously starting to do that by reading this article, but if you haven't yet you should definitely check it out.
Be sure to balance the practical reasons (forgiveness of student loans) against the personal reasons (see the world, help people); you should things on both sides, if you don't then you probably won't make it through the application process and/or your service.
If after reading through things, the Peace Corps still seems like the place for you, then you should apply.
Apply online.
You can still get a paper application but the on-line one is really easy and saves and everything, so if you have access to a computer then do it on-line.
It will take a long time.
You have to have information about all of the places you have ever worked or volunteered, three references, a resume, etc.
Submit the Medical Review sheet.
This is easily done in 10 or 15 minutes, and is available immediately after you press the "submit" button of your online application.
This is a comprehensive form that asks questions about you health history.
It is important to fill this out to the best of your knowledge, since it affects which forms are sent to your during your full medical review.
Prepare for the interview.
Concurrently with doing your medical kit you will also be contacted by your regional Peace Corps Office to confirm a date for your interview.
Don't stress about it.
All of the recruiters are former volunteers and are very, very nice, so if you genuinely want to join the Peace Corps, having a one- to two-hour conversation about the possibility of going abroad and serving will be no problem.
Nomination.
Your recruiter will nominate you for a program.
You don't get to know what it is. After this point your file and everything that you do will be through the National Peace Corps Office in DC, and it will take a long time, usually, to hear anything; but, when you do get a hold of someone there, they are very nice and really do want to help you- but they can't always.
Medical Review.
After you are nominated, you will be sent an EXTREMELY comprehensive medical packet.
Make an appointment with your doctor, multiple if you can.
You will need multiple blood tests, a physical exam, pap test for females, and numerous other tests for males and applicants ages 50+.
I cannot stress enough, make sure the ENTIRE packet it filled out and signed.If something is missed, your medical officer will request any additional needed documents, but this can further lengthen your application process, and even possibly push back your departure date.
Placement.
Once receive medical placement, you will be contacted by a placement officer.
They will discuss with you what you have been up to since your initial interview (yes, this whole process generally takes 6 months to a year).
They will then let you know if your initial nomination is still available, or if you will be sent to another country at another date.