around.)A small notebook fits in this purse for on-the-go writing.
Decide on the purpose for your notebook.
Will you write down your inventions ? Will you write ideas for a screenplay , or novel , or poem you will someday write?
Will you write down thoughts and ideas related to a particular project ? Or do you simply want to have a place to jot your to-do list or shopping list ?
Choose a notebook that is right for you.
There are a wide variety of notebooks available, so take the time to look for a good one and don't be afraid to spend a little extra money.
After all, your greatest work may be produced in this book!
Here are some things to consider:
Portability and size.
Notebooks work best when they are at hand when you need them.
Choose something large enough to contain your writing and sketches and small enough to stow away.
Would you like this notebook go in a purse or briefcase, in a pocket, in a binder or backpack?
The writing environment.
Do you need to write standing up, or on the go?
Then you should choose something stiff-backed that you can hold with one hand while you write with the other.
Does this notebook need to function in a special environment, such as a laboratory, a cleanroom , a kitchen , a factory, or a boat ?
Purpose.
A blank book with a colorful, flowery cover may inspire you to write a journal , but it won't fit at a business meeting.
A spiral notebook can open fully and fold back and it won't push itself closed while you try to write.
Do you need ruled lines for writing or would you prefer blank pages or a grid to aid in sketching?
Some notebooks even come printed with a musical staff.
Divisions and markers.
Do you want it to be divided into different categories, say, Homework , Ideas, Reflections, and To-Do Lists, or be more random or free-form, like a journal?
You can buy pre-divided notebooks, or divide them yourself with stick-on dividers, flags, ribbons, or bookmarks.
Legality.
If this notebook will contain information that you may someday wish to get a patent , look for a bound book with pre-numbered pages.
Understand the rules about keeping a notebook for such purposes.
Where will your notebooks take you?
Give your notebook a specific purpose.
Some people don't write any thoughts or family information in it, just things from their job or meetings they have attended.
Others use their notebooks as a catch-all for the many ideas popping through their heads.
Write in it.
Find your own style to make the most of your notebook.
Use it the way that works best for you.
Some good times to write it down:
When you are given a task.
When you think of a new invention or idea.
When you are given a compliment , recommendation, or piece of good advice.
The ideal format is the one that works best for you.
Organize your notes, at least a little bit.
Date each entry.
Number the pages.
Title your texts.
Write down background information, e.g. who attended a meeting.
Write well enough that you can read your notes, unless you're keeping the notebook for official purposes; in that case, write well enough that others can read your notes.
Write at the same time every day.
If you are a "lark", early morning can offer a productive time to write because your brain is fresh and most flexible and the activity can help shape the upcoming day.
"Owls" may find evenings a better time to update their notes; it can be helpful to allot a few minutes before you go home from work or school to jot down today's important points and plan activities for tomorrow.
Write in the little times between things, while you are standing in line or waiting for the next thing to happen, for instance.
Write whenever the feeling strikes you.
Ideas come and go, and unless you jot them down, you may forget.
Remember the historian's mindset: If it's not written down, it didn't happen.