Measure, add half an inch in all directions, and cut.
Measure your ipod's dimensions and add half an inch.
Alternatively, you could just wrap the cloth around the iPod and mark an extra inch all around.
Cut the material to size.
Trace your iPod faceplate onto the paper side of some fusible webbing.
Be as precise as you can.
This will directly affect the look of your final product.
Position parallel to the edge and iron into place.
Iron the fusible webbing onto the back of your material, positioning it where you want the face plate in your final product.
Cut a slit for your scissor.
Cut slits in the opening to allow your scissors through.
Cut to the edges from the center.
Cut radiating lines out from the center of the circle up to your traced lines.
For the rectangle, cut to each corner.
For the circle, cut equally spaced radiant lines.
Peel off the paper.
Peel off the paper backing from the fusible webbing.
Iron the points out, using the tip of your iron.
Iron each point away from the center.
Use only the tip of your iron to avoid getting your iron plate sticky.
Clickwheel opening points ironed away from the opening.
Screen Opening - with points ironed "out" and away from the center.
Note that the lower flap had to be trimmed to prevent it overlapping the clickwheel opening.
Continue ironing points away from the center.
Pull them slightly while ironing to enlarge the opening.
Open your package of Iron On Patch material.
Open up your package of Iron-on Mending material.
Trace the faceplate onto the mending material.
Trace your faceplate onto the back or "wrong" side of the Iron-on mending material.
Place and Trace
Line up the viewscreen and clickwheel carefully with the openings in your fabric and trace the outline of the iPod onto the back or "wrong" side of your material.
Trim the material to size.
Trim your material to no more than an inch around the tracing.
Miter the corners if desired.
This will make sewing them slightly easier later.
Fold over the top and bottom edges
Fold the top and bottom edges over, leaving at least half an inch between the marked edges for the iPod and the folded edge.
Pin in place.
Measure carefully.
Measure to ensure that the top and bottom edges are parallel to each other.
Adjust pins if necessary.
Cut out the openings from the Iron-on mending material
Cut out the openings from the Iron-on mending material.
Cut approximately 1-1.5cm outside the marked line.
Test fit the patch material to your other fabric and trim to size if necessary.
Line it up and iron it on.
Line up the openings carefully and iron the patch material into the back side of the other fabric.
Fold and mark your seam lines.
Fold the whole thing in half with the patch material to the outside.
Test fit to your iPod and pin along the line to be sewn.
Sew the side seam.
Sew the side seam as marked and test fit.
Adjust as necessary.
Trim the seam.
Trim seam allowance to 1/4 inch (3cm).
Fold several layers of ribbon for the attachment point.
Fold several layers of 1/16th ribbon and pass them through the attachment ring you chose.
(the author used 8 layers of ribbon.)
D-rings, Keychain rings, etc. all will work well.
Sew the ribbon ends together.
Sew together well.
Sew the ribbon ends together firmly.
Sew the ribbon to the side seam allowance.
Place the ribbon ends along the seam allowance for the side seam and sew them firmly in place.
Topstitch the edge.
Topstitch the edge for additional reinforcement of the attachment point.
Sew the center of the bottom closed, leaving the corners open for the earbuds.
Topstitch the center inch of the bottom edge to prevent the iPod from falling out...but leave the corners unsewn to allow the earbuds to plug in.