class.Stuff an ankle sock and stitch up the hem . You could also use a regular sock and just cut off the top.
The toe becomes the head, the heel the rear end.
Stuffing the Sock
Sew the opening closed.
Cut off the toe of the second sock and turn inside out.
Inside out foot and toe section which will become the legs.
Mark the vertical center line to designate legs (with slightly rounded "toes" as shown).
Drawing the legs.
Sew approximately a quarter inch from the center line on each side.
Go up one side and down the other, rounding the toes.
Leave about 1 inch (2.5 cm) towards the top.
Sewing around the vertical line.
Take care NOT to go ALL the way up to the opening with your stitching.
Turn this right side out, stuff and stitch the top closed.
These are your doll's legs.
Legs before stuffing.
Sew together the hems (closed openings) of the two socks . As you sew , make sure that the legs and the rear end are at natural angles.
Sewing legs to body
Legs and body from the front after sewing.
Make the arms from the remaining sock . Cutting the sock to get the arm pieces.
Cut off the heel and toe.
Turn, draw a center line and round the "ends" of the arms.
Turn inside out, draw the center line.
Sew a quarter inch from the center line.
Sew a quarter inch from the center line.
Cut the two arms apart.
Cut apart as shown.
Turn the arms right side out, and then stuff and stitch them to the body.
Stuff the arms and sew them to the body on either side.
With a sturdy thread , sew 1/4 inch stitches around the neck and cinch them slightly to form the head.
You can also tie a ribbon (the doll's scarf ) around to make the neck and give the doll a unique style.
Use buttons , beads , googly eyes, yarn and markers to make the doll's face.
A sample face.
Add yarn hair.
Wrap 30 or so strands of yarn around something sturdy that is approximately a foot wide.
Wrapping yarn around a sturdy object.
Place a strip of felt under the yarn, perpendicular to the wrap direction.
Place strip of felt under yarn.
Hand baste the yarn strands to the felt strip.
Baste the yarn to the felt.
Turn the object over and cut the yarn in the center of the side opposite the basted felt strip.
Cut opposite the felt.
Machine sew the yarn strands to the felt strip.
Machine sew the yarn strands to the felt strip.
Trim the felt strip ends.
Center the felt strip on the doll's head and sew it on.
Centering the hair on the head.
Sewing the hair to the head along the line of felt.
You may leave the hair smooth or braid it, as you prefer.
Smooth/straight hair.
Cut scraps of cloth to make clothes.
Sew these on to the doll.
Or, you could make the clothes so that they can be taken on and off easily.