leave.Decide on a name for your group.
The names shouldn't be too long or hard to remember, yet still be original.
Make some fliers.
If, for example, you're recruiting around your neighbourhood, hand-made fliers should be fine.
Be sure to colour them brightly and maybe laminate them to protect them from weather elements.
Be sure to leave some way of contact so that if they're interested, they can ask to join.
Tack them up around your neighbourhood, including on wooden posts.
If you're just recruiting members around your school or community, either let others know by word of mouth or make a single eye-catching poster to stick on a bulletin board.
Create cards.
If you like to make it a little more exclusive, membership cards are a fun option.
These are more easily made on the computer, but they should also be laminated or printed on firmer paper.
Choose a location.
Once you have enough members, you can decide on a designated meeting place.
Maybe your house, a local park, a spot in the forest, or an empty classroom (with permission from your school).
A meeting once a month is acceptable - beware because once a week may be too demanding for some busier members.
Discuss current animal topics at the meetings.
Make a designated theme for each meeting, for instance: Spaying and Neutering, De-clawing, Animal Rescues, Endangered Species, etcetera.
Make sure to research the topic and perhaps ask your club members to bring in some newspaper clippings.
Spend a few minutes going around the room and asking people for their opinion.
Organize plenty of fundraisers . The classical lemonade stand or garage sale works well (make sure to put a sign that says 'All Proceeds Go To _____ Shelter' or some other organization).
You can also sell crafts you make , have car washes , or simple pledges.
Make goals, for example, a goal to raise $50.
If you raise $150, then you can donate the $100 and keep the extra fifty for club purposes.
Get involved with your members.
If one of their cats die, then you can all get together to make a 'memory box' or a card for them.
Dog-walking circles can be weekly.
Birthday parties are fun and simple to organize.