typeDevelop a general work schedule in which you lay out the major elements of your workload.
Decide how much time to spend on business development, personal needs, family, and other important areas.
A good allotment of time to set aside for yourself is 25%.
Each time you make a commitment, make a timeline for your involvement.
Keep in mind that maintenance requires 25% of the time you spend on any project, so plan accordingly.
Build flexibility into your schedule.
How much time you have for family and friends depends on the flexibility you build into your schedule.
Also, in times of emergencies it is necessary to have good backup resources and a network of friends and/or family to provide assistance.
Prioritize your activities by identifying crucial deadlines , routine maintenance items, and fun/relaxation time.
To help you determine what needs to be done immediately and what can be tackled later, ask yourself questions such as: "How much time do I have to make this decision, contact this person, or complete this assignment?"
To set priorities, you need to know deadlines, how many people you should call to acquire key information, and whether you can delegate or get assistance from others.
Group projects also require extra time for communication and problem solving.
Assess your options for achieving your priorities.
Evaluate and proceed with the ones you feel are most useful.
You should never change approaches halfway through a task unless you are positive the change will save time.
If you are doubtful, it is best to continue in the direction you started.
Evaluate your capacity for stress and take steps to reduce stress and anxiety.
Start with the most worrisome task if at all possible.
Doing so will reduce your anxiety and stress levels for the next tasks and in many cases improve your performance.
Take breaks if you feel you are about to overload.
Even a short period away from the desk is effective.
Focus on completing deadline work early.
Not only will you reduce stress, but you'll also gain more self-confidence about managing your time.
Be active.
Physical exertion , such as swimming, running, bicycling, and sports activities, helps to expel stress.
Other activities that are beneficial are yoga , stretching , sit-ups , jumping rope , and yard work.
It's also possible to fit in physical activity during a work day.
For example, take a walk during a lunch break, park further away from the building, and use stairs rather than the elevator.
Contract out tasks for which you lack the expertise to complete.
Not only will you open up more time to handle other tasks, but you also assure your client that honesty and effort to get the best result are your goals.
Take advantage of down time.
Relax your body and use the time between busy periods to review your schedule and reevaluate your priorities.