date.Go to a good online dating site and join the site.
Many sites are free and take about 10 mins to join and setup an account and verify by email.
just search google for "online dating site", make sure you join a famous site that has a lot of regular visitors
create a fully completed profile, what you do define who you are, and whatever you put in there, there is somebody who is going to like it so don't be shy.
just write the good things you know about your self.
be open and honest.
a good attitude will get you 100 girl a month  : it is okay to say what ever to a girl, she receive those whatever from hundreds of guy like you every day, so don't over think it.
just make a commitment that you will get 100 girl this year.
and maybe you will get 200.
make the commitment now.
a picture is a key : nobody is going to connect with you if you don't have a picture.
add a nice one, that have you smiling, and close enough to make your face clearly seen.
Make contact with a few of the members.
Use the chat and online email functions, contact a few members and don't place all of your eggs in 1 basket.
As a rule, women get lots of email so they won't always respond to the first contact.
and don't forget the law of average, the more you send message to, the more responses you will get.
be patient it is going to take time, and maybe you will get some rejection, but nobody hasn't.
the more you play lotto the more your chances are to win, it is just like that.
make you goal to talk to all the girls in that site.
Play the game a little, even online.
Make contact, be polite, respond to what the women are looking for in their profiles.
Women get hit by so many replies to their ads that they are only going to respond to the ones that stand out and address their needs.
Online dating is an easy skill - you want results improve your skills.
Just like the offline dating scene, some men are much better at it than others.
This is not to say you can t learn the art form!.
so don't stop learning and trying different presentation of your self to see what works.
Do to others as you would have them do to you.
Girls are going to behave differently depending on what they are expecting, so you have to take a good close look at the information they post in their profile.
If there is an indication that your prospect wants a relationship, then you would be advised to start slowly or consider what you're after and not start at all.
Use your manners.
Look at and respond to members profiles.
Respond to ads where you meet the profile requirements.
Give a little information about yourself and what your looking for.
Be genuine.
Don't lie about your age or anything else!
Don t be rude.
Don t respond to ads outside of their asking requirements.