Manager.Estimate the number of people who will come to the convention.
Pay attention to detail.
List what venue items will be needed for your event; audio, video, lighting, etc.
List the number of people required to assist the running of your event in regard to things like camera operators, lighting operators, sound controllers, ushers, security, ticket booth assistants, car park assistants, caterers etc. It is a good idea to seek out from your organisation any doctors or nurses who may be prepared to answer a medical call should the need arise.
People like to chat and eat during breaks.
Split your event into workable categories (video, sound, catering, security etc) and nominate one person (managerial assistant) to take charge of each category.
Make sure the overall coordinator has no other task for the event than coordination.
The overall coordinator should chair all planning meetings prior to the event and work with the managerial assistants to bring the event together in the planning stage to ensure successful outcomes are attained.
Appoint a suitable person to act as Master of Ceremonies.
In many ways this is the most important task of such an event; if the Master of Ceremonies fails the whole programme can be in jeopardy.
Remember that people get hungry; so they eat.
Conversely they need to visit the bath room from time to time.
Make sure your program is structured so that attendees have time to eat their snacks and/or meals during breaks and visit the bath room also; should that be necessary.
Check with the venue owners about your responsibilities in regard to local council by-laws etc. Don't get caught out, ask.
Once you know what is required make sure everything is covered in your planning.
It would be a good idea to put someone in charge of this area of the event.
Leave plenty of room for people to go in and out when necessary.
Make sure you have insurance cover for the event.
Appoint either one person or perhaps a married couple to act as convention hosts for your convention speakers and presenters.
This host person or host couple will be commissioned to look after guests from the time they step off the plane on arrival until they go back through the airport after the event is all over.
These hosts must be people of high calibre as they represent your event in the eyes of the guests coming.
Appoint a man or woman , Friday, to deal with anything out of left field that might crop up during the event.
This person may require assistants and should be free to appoint these as needed.