room.Take all the clothes out of your closet.
This might take a while!
Clean the inside of the closet.
Seriously, when was the last time you did it?
Vacuum or sweep the floor, wipe the walls down with all-purpose cleaner, and sweep away any cobwebs.
Prepare to purge.
Although a good organizational system can maximize your closet space, more often than not the problem is simply too many items in too small a space.
Determine which clothes to donate or give away.
Get rid of clothes that don't fit, clothes that you never wear, and clothes that don't match anything or that for any reason, don't make you feel great when you wear them.
If you find clothing that has emotional meaning for you (a sweater Grandma knit, perhaps) that you won't wear, but can't bear to give away, take a picture of it and post it on the inside of the door or in a photo album before storing or donating it.
Separate out items that are out-of-season : your winter coat, summer dresses, and so on.
If you are not currently using them, they are just taking up valuable space.
Try storing in different places: under your bed (in a plastic container), for instance.
If you don't have such space, store your winter-season clothes at one end of your closet and summer-season at the other end.
At least it will be organized and obvious where your item is.
Organize all your in-season clothing while putting it back in your closet.
One way is by type of clothing, occasion, hem and sleeve length, and then color.
For example, first you might organize your skirts.
You'd put all your skirts together, but you'd separate work skirts from casual skirts, and from special fancy going-out skirts.
Then, within each category, you'd put the shortest ones first, so a miniskirt that you'd wear to work would come before a knee-length one.
Finally, you'd organize by color, so that a red miniskirt would go before an orange miniskirt.
If you do it this way, getting dressed in the morning will be MUCH easier than ever before.
You'll really be able to zero in on the right parts of your closet for wherever you're going and immediately see what your options are.
A simple organizational system is simply by type: shirts together, pants together, and so on.
It is simple to maintain and determine where items are.
Do what works for you.
Some people are more particular than others.
As long as you can find your items quickly, with minimal frustration, that's successfully organized.
Put most clothes on hangers.
Clothes hangers allow your clothes to remain wrinkle-free in your closet (providing they aren't crowded in there!)
Do not use clothes hangers on the following : loose knits, items such as sweaters, or anything that will lose its shape on a hanger over time.
These should be stored folded on a shelf, drawer, chest, or the like.
Some items like shirts with wide necklines or silk camisoles will slide off of hangers no matter what you do, as well.
Go beyond the closet pole.
The one pole across the closet is one of the most inefficient use of space!
Even using some storage crates, shelving, or one of a number of closet organizers commercially available will make a huge difference.
Another inexpensive and temporary solution is to hang a lower hanger on the rod that's in there.
That way, you at least double-stack your hanging clothing.
Do you need to purge items again?
What have you rarely or not at all worn this season?
What's out of fashion.
Does your system work?
What does?
What doesn't?
Ideally, do a full cleaning once a year.