weatherPlan how much time you have to work on your locker.
If you want to make minor changes, do so between classes.
If you need to tidy all of your possessions, take time when the area isn't flooded with people and you have time to concentrate on the task at hand.
If you are cleaning a locker at work you should try to do this when it isn't interfering with your work duties.
Stay late or arrive early.
Consider stopping in on your day off.
Take out everything you have in your locker.
Organize these things into three piles:
Everything you are keeping in your locker
A trash pile
A pile for things that you want to take home or have to turn in
Soak a cloth in warm, soapy water, and clean the walls and floor of your locker.
Use another cloth to dry it.
If working with a wet rag is inconvenient you can bring a few of the pre-moistened, disposable cleaning cloths.
Store them in a Ziploc bag if you don't want to bring the container.
The Ziploc bag will prevent them from drying out.
(This step is not neccessary, but very helpful.)
Throw the trash pile away, and take care of the things you want to take home or turn in.
Then sort the items you want to keep in your locker into groups again.
Books, clothes, hygiene products, jewelry, and any other groups that you think are necessary.
If you don't need it or won't be using it for some time you should take it home for safe keeping.
Use extreme caution before keeping anything valuable in your locker.
Most schools, sports clubs and work places can still gain access to your locker for security reasons.
Not everyone is honest.
Lockers are also commonly broken into, especially if you are known to keep valuables stored there.
Go through your locker every few weeks and purge of any old work, clutter and items to take home.
This will prevent a build up of clutter and make it easier to find things.
You can also take a few minutes every week to tidy up.
Make yourself a note of any items you need to bring from home.
It's easy to remember cleaning items and pens as you're looking at your items but it is easy to forget when you're leaving the house.
Hang clothing and your backpack from hooks.
If your locker doesn't have them, attach them yourself.
You can find heavy duty hooks with the easy to remove adhesive in the home section or near the picture hooks at many stores.
Get the ones that can hold heavier items.
Place your books upright on the bottom shelf, because they will break the top shelf from being too heavy, with the spines facing you.
Order them in size, schedule, alphabetically, or by priority.
Place your notebooks/binders on the top shelf of your rack.
If you have any loose sheets of paper that you need, place them in a plastic folder, and put this on the second shelf.
Think: heavy stuff on bottom, light on top.
And if you have a gym bag or purse, put that on the top as well.
Or better yet, hang it from a hook.
Collect pencils and other stationery into a pencil case.
Carry that pencil case with you.
Put anything dirty, such as shoes or sports equipment on the floor.
The area is easy to clean and keep fresh as opposed of stacking dirty items on top of papers and clean items.
Use magnetic locker organizers to organize smaller items in your locker.
Don't attach these to the door as they can fall when the door is slammed shut.
Instead, stick these to the back or side walls.
Put a magnetic white board to write reminders, and not waste paper !