time.Make sure to gather volunteers.
If they have good connections, the job of finding important guests is easier.
Prepare a draft poster.
The draft should include the tentative date, time, venue (place), chief guest, name of the event, and a theme or tag-line for the event.
Prepare a draft schedule of the activities in the event.
Prepare a time line (with deadlines) for each activity.
Get approval for your budget, schedule, and etc. from team members as well as supervisors.
Make sure to update any websites connected to the event.
Collect sponsors and other sources of money from delegates.
Market the event.
Prepare brochure, release advertisement, inform the media, send mailings, make phone calls, send messages to e-groups, and visit potential participants or sponsors.
It is important to make sure administrative actions are being taken care of as well.
Things like poor accounting, and lack of correspondence can create problems for any event.
Gather items needed for the event.
These items might include medals, games, mementos, prizes, or certificates.
Make arrangements for Photos, videos etc.
Make arrangements for food and refreshments.
This is also a good time to prepare for special accommodation such as for those who have disabilities etc
Make arrangements for chairs, tables, backdrops, microphones, speakers, computers, LCD projectors, podiums to be set up at the venue.
Prepare a list with all relevant mobile, phone numbers, emails ids of team members.
Also, make a similar contact list for VIP, and supplier of any goods or services.
Visit the venue with your team members, look around the place including parking, toilets, green rooms, contact person, arrangements, various entrances and exits.
Look for nearby places where you can take photocopy, make phone calls, buy any things in case of emergency.
Give proper instructions to the team members on how to handle every situation.
Check whether all invitations have been sent and responded to.
Create a list of invitees.
Remind VIPs about the events.
Check whether all activities are going on schedule.
Check travel arrangements/maps/directions for participants.
Go to the venue and check whether all things are ready.
Collect enough money/cash for the event expenses from concerned persons.
Check whether participants kit is ready.
This kit might include a bottle of water, snack bar, note paper, pen, brochure and any information they may need.
It is also a good idea to include small mementos.
Prepare minute to minute agenda for important activities.
Make a checklist of the things to be taken to the venue.
Arrive early to the venue with your team members and volunteers.
Check for the electric reading and that all electronic equipment is in working order.
Make sure the organisers are wearing a distinct badge or some other noticeable implement so that participants can find help if needed.
Put the Welcome Banners and other info in front of the building.
Make a reception and registration counter.
Inform the sponsors on where to put the stalls.
(Make allocation of space earlier).
Keep the microphones, and speakers ready.
Put on music for an informal event.
Make sure the host speaker has the schedule and resume of the chief guest ready.
He/She should be well prepared.
Make sure the host/anchor/Master of Ceremony is aware of the purpose of the event as well as the people who are organising it.
Make sure that speakers are aware of any time constraints.
Welcome the delegates and others.
Take care of any special requests, especially those of the outstations and chief guest.
Have a separate person to look after the needs of General Delegates (Non-VIPs) and for PR (Public Relations).
Give directions to those who need them.
Take photos of all important things especially sponsors banners, your banner, entrance, receptions etc.
Ensure all resources (food, water etc) are sufficient, otherwise work out your contingency plan.
Thank the delegates after the event.
Take the feedback from participants.
Thank the all team members, especially sponsors and volunteers.
Finalize and settle the accounts.
Have a Thank You party for those who helped.
Distribute any souvenirs or other publications to relevant people.
Deliver the receipts to sponsors and others.
Distribute the photos to those who require it (after developing the photos) and post the photos in your event website.
Evaluate the feedback forms (or feedback from your website)