programs.Show your responsibility ! Let them know that you are definitely responsible and happy to take care of this puppy/dog, and you are to handle the responsibility of owning a pet.
Be ready to demonstrate that by volunteering to be tested.
Have your parents give you something to take care of for a set amount of time.
It can be an egg (don't let it break), a sack of flour, a plant, or even a friend's pet.
Doing well on this test run may help show your parents that you're responsible and serious about wanting a dog.
Take a friend or relative's dog for a weekend as a "test run" to show your parents that you are ready for the responsibility.
Make sure that you have a good attitude, showing your parents that you can be responsible without getting into trouble, or giving up on your responsibility.
To persuade your parents into getting a dog your grades must go up and stay up!
Do your homework, and be excellent in school.
Do chores around the house.
This is a way to prove you are responsible.
Offer to help with the extra housecleaning and vacuuming.
Dogs can be messy, especially before they're housebroken.
Most dogs will shed.
Since it is you who wants a dog, you should make the extra effort.
You should explain to your parents that you are willing to do this before the dog gets there to prove your sincerity.
Make a presentation, and show it to your parents.
Make sure to include a list of the things that you will do so that the dog gets taken care of, supplies the dog will need, average prices the supplies will cost, and maybe even find a dog that matches the breed that you want at a local breeder or animal shelter.
Make useful list :
Make a List of the benefits of having a dog:
The dog will help you to be more responsible.
The dog can become a companion for the whole family.
Walking a dog can help you get more exercise.
Dogs can sometimes be trained to perform useful tasks, such as warning you of intruders or fetching objects.
Dogs can be therapeutic, especially during sad or lonely times.
A dog is a friend that will always be there to cheer you up!
They are like people who understand what your saying and they know when just to lick you and lay down right next to you and just sit there and let you pet them until you feel better.
Make a list of all the reasons your parents don't want a dog: We don't have a fenced yard, they slobber, you don't have time etc., and do your best to eliminate or diminish each of the reasons.
This shows that you are willing to work for your cause.
Do some research.
Find local shelters, see about their shots and if they come with a leash and collar, research training techniques, etc. This will make your parents discover that you really are serious.
Know how to train the dog.
Learn how to house-train a dog so that it will not "go" in the house.
Books on the subject can be found and borrowed free from your local library, or found easily and free on the internet!
You could also ask a friend for advice on caring for a dog.
Learn as much as you can about dogs, not just about basic care; read books about dog-related sports, common diseases, tricks, nutrition, etc. This will show that you are willing go the extra mile for your future dog and that you really want to care for it and make it live up to it's full potential.
Research further into the breed you want.
This information will help you even if you get a mixed breed dog.
If you can tell what some of the breeds are, you might have some idea as to the temperament of the dog.
Figure out what to do when you are away.
Dogs cannot be left behind while the family goes on vacation.
If you leave for a family vacation, you must either find a friend to take care of your dog while you are gone or take the dog to a kennel.
You should find a friend whose parents are willing to do this, or you should find a kennel.
Find out how much it costs to board your dog and prepare to save up some money so you can be responsible for your dog's care.
If your parents say that they/you are not at home enough to look after a dog, suggest looking into dog walkers, who will take the dog out for the day, giving them exercise and training them to be more sociable too!
Be more active.
Dogs need regular exercise.
You will have to sacrifice some of your personal time with friends or hobbies to walk your dog.
It may help to convince your parents that you are willing to do this if you tell them you are going to go for a walk daily prior to getting the dog.
You will have to do this regularly once the dog gets there, and more than once a day.
Help paying the expenses.
Offer to help pay for the dog food by doing extra chores or contributing some of your pocket money.
Care for yourself, as well.
To prove that you are really mature and responsible enough, show that you can take care of yourself.
Eat healthy, shower often, brush your teeth, and do your own laundry.
Think as yourself as a little adult, and meet up to the expectations of being so.
Give them time to think about it.
Remember, don't ask them over and over every day, or they will shut you out.
If they say no, keep showing maturity and understanding, keep being helpful in the house, and occasionally mention the dog, to make them get used to the idea.
You should know that pestering them will only undo your earlier work showing them that you are not mature and responsible enough yet.
Save a life.
Convince your parents that you are saving a life by adopting a shelter dog.
You are saving a dog that would have been "put to sleep" next week.
Think about it, and let them know.
They will feel good about this, and they might let you get the dog that you want!
Understand your parents reasons.
Be sure to realize that if they still say no maybe it is them that aren't prepared, as dogs can be really expensive and time-occupying.
If this is the case, continue showing maturity by understanding it, and supporting them until the right time comes by, and they are ready for the dog.
If your parent don't want a dog, maybe you would want to ask for a more independent animal like a cat, a rodent or fish?
Think about if you want this, and then talk to your parents about the difference and the good sides of the smaller animal.