happened.Take out a 3-ring binder and some loose-leaf paper.
Label different sheets of paper with the following :
Master Menu
Master Weekly Plan.
For this one, write down the days of the week, leaving three lines for each day.
One page for each day of the week.
Create a list of main dishes that you and your family enjoy on the Master Menu page you made.
Do this quickly and without thinking, there will be time to edit and add on to the list later.
Review your list.
Is there anything on it that will take longer than 30 minutes of prep (not including cooking time)?
Place a star by these items and reserve them for days when you have extra time such as the weekend or special occasions.
Look over the remaining items, can any of them be classified into certain categories such as : Casseroles, Mexican or Sandwiches?
Make notes by each one that can fit into topics.
Determine the day you ordinarily go grocery shopping.
Mark (on your Master Weekly Plan) the day before as "Leftovers".
For example, if you typically go grocery shopping on Tuesday, make Monday leftover night.
Figure out whether you have a day in the week that is particularly busy.
Mark this day as "Quick Meal".
For example, if you run errands on Thursday, mark Thursday as "Quick Meals."
check to see if you can read your own writing
Review the Categories you created on your Master Menu.
Place different categories on different days according to what you have.
Fill in any remaining days with "Soup and Sandwich Night," "Family Favorites Night," or even "Cheese Night."
Whatever strikes your fancy until you have all the days filled in with a designated category.
Grab yet another piece of paper.
This will be your Current Menu.
Write down the days of the week until and including "Leftovers."
For example, if "Leftovers" is on Thursday, and today is Monday, write down Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
Leave two lines for each day.
Place "Leftovers" on the appropriate day.
Determine what you have in the house and work from that, your Master Menu, and your Master Weekly Menu Plan to fill in the main dishes from now until leftover night.
Make sure you have matching side dishes, if necessary, as well.
Take out of the freezer whatever needs to be thawed for tonight's dinner.
Be sure to include whatever side dishes you may want.
Create the menus for the following week in the same manner EXCEPT, you can decide what you want to make without worrying about what is already in the house (unless you want to, for example you want to get rid of that Mac & Cheese you bought a lot of because it was on sale).
Cull your weekly grocery list from your current weekly plan.