etc.Label file folders
Goals/Deadlines: Even if you don't have a publisher or editor breathing down your neck, it's a good idea to create personal goals and deadlines for completion.
Create a master list for your folder and update both calendars if anything changes.
For example, if you have an interview with a veterinarian, place that on the calendars and review your master list as to how that alters your goals.
Characters: One for each major, secondary, and recurring minor characters as well as another for a "master character list."
If your story is one that has character "types" (such as aliens or monsters) make a folder for those as well.
Maps/Settings: Not just for large scale settings (such as a "story world" map so you can differentiate between galaxy sectors in a sci-fi tale or which neighbor lives next door to the other one) but for each major household so you don't have your main character with the master bedroom on the first floor in one chapter, and then five chapters later it's on the second or third floor.
Scenes: One for your "Master Scene List" (see tips) for a quick overview and one for each scene in your novel.
You may eventually wish to combine scenes into chapter sections, but until you're sure exactly what form your novel is going to take this technique makes it easier to mix and match until the novel is solid.
Research: Start with a list of questions on areas in your novel that you are unsure about and use secondary (encyclopedia etc.) as well as primary resources that you can frequently acquire through a few phone calls whether by using the phone book or by contacts you know from work or your personal life.
Label the hanging file folders with the same categories.
Organize these files appropriately inside of the filing cabinet.
File major categories (character, etc) alphabetically and then by sub-categories (specific characters).
Assure that the research materials you'll need are conveniently located.
The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language Fourth Edition
Roget'sst Century Thesaurus Third Edition
Bartletts' Familiar Quotations
Britannica Concise Encyclopaedia The Updated Version