Hamburgers are among the food options at fast food joints
Decide what type of restaurant you really want to have . Fast-food joints or family based restaurants are better for beginners.
Keep in mind that if you have a fun-center, you'll need to pay attention to your budget more.
Fun-centers are the most popular restaurant options and can attract a great number of people no matter what time of the year.
Or you may even want to go exotic and open up a restaurant for a culture of some sort.
Whatever method you choose, be sure and plan out your steps carefully, so you can keep your business at a great start.
A delicious Mexican dish served on a green plate.
Do more research . If you decided that you want to manage a restaurant, then do research about the joint that you want to create and have.
Are you creating a restaurant for the country of Mexico?
Then if so, what are some of the meals served there?
What food prices are you willing to give?
Ask yourself these questions, and ask your friends if they have any suggestions.
A tip for a restaurant, a dollar bill.
Know your budget and stick to it . Try to keep your budget at a quality like base for your customers, but be sure that you offer discounts whenever possible.
Tips are a helpful option, but not necessary, in restaurants.
An arcade, such as this one, makes a wonderful boredom buster compliment to your restaurant.
Decide if you want to go entertainment or non-entertainment . You'll have a better chance of attracting more customers if you choose some sort of an entertainment posse for your restaurant.
Game arcades, book reading, and activities for kids and teens are sure to make your restaurant more elite and recommended.
Choose the right decor for your restaurant.
You may want multi-colored walls, brick tables, or booths.
Or you might prefer to have white walls, stone tables, and no booths.
If you do decide what decorative and exterior method to use, you'll want to make sure it compliments the food and the atmosphere.
For example, a fancily made chocolate cake won't compliment well with plain white walls and a fast-food service menu.
A fast food service menu.
Paying attention to your budget on the menu is crucial.
Create an outside dining area which can add to the delight of the food served there.
Your guests will enjoy sitting at a comfortable spot and enjoy their meal.
If you do decide to have an outside theme, Choose comfortable tables and benches for people to sit on.
You may even want to decorate the outside with paper lamps, lanterns, lights, and/or light based interiors at night or evening time.
If your doing a formal restaurant, table lamps in pink and yellow pastel colors compliment well.
Even lamps that are brightly colored and have fun patterns will work for fun-centers.
If a family centered restaurant is being planned, leave the lamps out.
Try using colored walls or statues, since they go better with this environment.
You might even want to mix earth tone colors with pastels for a sophisticated look.
If you prefer to, decide which staff you want to hire for your restaurant . A basic beginner restaurant needs waiters, a cashier for the front desk, clean up crew, and a chef.
Waiters are suitable for a restaurant because they help people order food, and suggest new dishes to try that have been featured on the menu.
A blue and brown architecture for the outside restaurant building.
Plan out your menu design.
For a more formal restaurant, a menu with a cream color and a reddish brown on the inside works out just fine.
You wouldn't want that form for a fun center, but instead an idea is to create the children's menu with bold patterns, colors, and techniques.
Where do you find appetizers on the menu ? Choose which menu layout you'd want to use.
Try to put the appetizer dishes right next to the main entrees, because people can have better luck finding the food that they need.
It's also a good idea to put the children's menu right underneath the adult menu.
A basic age preference for the children's menu is two-eleven years old.
The drinks and beverage items should be placed right next to the Children's menu.
Your restaurant can also allow customers to purchase drinks, such as these milkshakes from 'Ben and Jerrys'.
Mascot decision.
If you wish to have a mascot for your restaurant, keep in mind that animals are more popular with kids instead of people mascots.
A good starting out animal would preferably be a dog.
Provide a budget for guests for pictures if available.
If you need to, its a good idea to place your restaurant where a great number of people will be attracted to it.
If there's already a fun center opened, putting your restaurant right next to it will be helpful.