regret.Set a budget.
Very important -- you should plan how much you want to spend on each detail of your wedding, and make sure you don't exceed that amount.
In some cases but not all, parents of the bride or groom will offer to pay for specific things.
Choose a theme.
It doesn't have to be anything really specific, but you want there to be a consistent feeling throughout.
Make sure the theme is easy to plan and decorate.
Everything should be consistent with the theme.
Decide on the size of your wedding.
Remember to talk this over with your fiance.
A dream wedding for one may not be for the other.
Choose your venue.
Even church venues can charge fees.
Choose your officiant (a pastor, or rabbi for example).
If they don't charge a fee outright to perform the ceremony, be courteous to pay a generous gratuity for their time.
Attend pre-marriage counseling.
(optional) This may take a large time commitment, but is worth it in the long-run.
Be honest about your desires and expectations for marriage.
Set the date.
The factors in choosing a date include the availability of your venue, friends and family.
Think about who you must have at your wedding, and try to set the date around them.
Send out invitations.
Be creative; you can make your own and add a personal touch or go to a professional.
Send them as early as feasible, for yours to make schedule arrangements.
(If Jewish, make sure to get kippots made)
Get the gown.
Start looking early, months before the wedding.
This way you will have plenty of time to make a selection and take care of fitting.
In most religions, it is traditional that the mother of both the groom, and bride comes to find the dress, as well as the maid of honour.
Select wedding rings.
This is a fun task to do together, and symbolizes your devotion to each other.
Most couples get matching rings to show that they complete one another's soul.
Find a photographer/videographer.
Consider a professional for this special occasion, and make sure that they are reliable so that you don't have to worry about forgetting your wedding, for years to come.
Decide what type of food and refreshments you will offer at the reception dinner.
Try to find a happy medium between what would please your guests and what you can afford.
Weigh the pros and cons of hiring a professional caterer, as it's not cheap, but it's one less thing you'll have to handle personally.
Some couples choose to base the menu on the culture of the family, or go for something that most people like.
(example: italian)
Pick a cake.
Before settling on a cake it's best to have a tasting first.
Also look into a cake that will match your theme, and please both the bride and groom.
Hire Your Entertainment.
Decide on a band or DJ.
It's not recommended to do it yourself with an iPod; there is more to wedding entertainment than just music, they will keep the flow of the event, make announcements, and plan all your special events with you.
Each has it's advantages and limitations (this should not be booked last, because all the good bands & wedding DJs get booked first!)
The entertainment is crucial and is what makes a wedding one to remember!
Decorations . You can usually hire someone that will decorate your wedding, but it can be expense.
Find decorations that match your color scheme.
Take a visit of the venue and take pictures of how the area looks.
You may want to even measure the dimension of the room or area.
This will allow you to plan where you want everything go and if you have enough space.
Transportation . If you have multiple venues, plan how you will travel from the ceremony location to the reception location.
Some couples may choose to rent a limousine or ride in a classic car.
If there will be alcohol at the reception, do you have a safe way for you and your bridal party to get home?
You may want to ask a friend or relative to be a designated driver for the night.
Also, in some families it is tradition to doctorate the couple s vehicle, so if you have a nice car you may want to keep it at home in the garage.
Hotel Rooms . Many couples will rent a honeymoon suite the night of their wedding.
Also, you may want to reserve a block of rooms for guests that will be attending your wedding.
This will usually ensure they all get the best rate.
Wedding programs . As with the invitations, you can you have your programs professionally printed or make your own.
It s not recommended that you print your programs much more than a week in advance in case there are any unexpected changes.
(such as changes in ushers or candle lighters) If possible, have your officiant proof read the ceremony potion of the program.