clothDecide who will be going with you and invite them along on the trip you are planning.
Decide how long of a trip that you want.
This can be influenced by how much money you are willing to spend and the availability of those going on the trip.
Choose in season dates for the trip which will work for everyone who is going on the trip.
The ski season ranges from mid-November to July 1st.
Decide how many days you want to be gone on the trip.
Consider what kind of ski resort you and your party want to ski at.
The big resorts offer many accomodations to their guests and have more trails that are longer and usually have faster lifts than smaller resorts.
There is a good selection of groomed and non-groomed ski runs as well as multiple mountains for those looking for more variety in their skiing experience.
The smaller resorts often are less busy than large resorts such as Monarch and Ski Cooper.
Smaller resorts may be considered if you are looking for a calmer, more relaxing atmosphere and fewer crowds while skiing.
Look at the different locations of the ski resorts you are considering on a map to see if any are near eachother.
For instance, Breckenridge, Keystone, and Copper mountain ski resorts are only aboutminutes from each other.
It helps to look at resort websites to see what they have to offer and if there are any special deals.
Follow one of the external links below to look at particular ski resorts.
Choose a resort that fits you and your plans.
If there are beginners in the group you may want to make sure the ski school lessons fit into your schedule and budget.
Check out the vertical drop of the resort.
Many resorts post this on their website.
Vertical drop indicates, in general, how long your ski runs will be.
After considering all of these things, you should have a resort or some specific resorts that you want to ski at
Make reservations for your lodging.
You and your party need to decide where you are staying during your ski trip.
Choose between the following.
Staying at the ski resort is a great option and advantages are numerous.
After a day of skiing all you have to do is go back to your place and relax.
You can leave some of your gear at the condo and can stop back there for breaks, such as lunch.
You will be able to go to the condo at your convenience.
Staying further from the ski resort will usually save you money.
You might also be closer to entertainment and shopping centers or perhaps you could be in a more secluded area.
The disadvantages of staying further away is that you will be further from the resort, which will add the hassle of getting to the ski slope with all of your equipment and you will need to have a car, or be near a bus station to get to the resort.
Find a hotel or condo location and book a reservation, either online or on the phone.
If you want lodging at the slope, you will usually have to go through the resort to book the reservations.
Find the website for the resort and look at different lodging options.
When you are happy with what you found, book it with a credit card and make sure it gets paid for in full when it is due.
If you chose to stay off the slope you should go through a company that will rent you a condo or hotel.
Go on the internet, then move to a search engine and type the Ski resort name followed by lodging.
When you look through the results look at several of the links that you have.
Pick any options that you like and call about them.
When you are happy with something you found, book it with a credit card and make sure it gets paid for in full when it is due.
Make any other reservations you feel that you need to make for your trip.
Two weeks before the trip,
Decide on what vehicles will be taken.
Decide at approximately what time you will be leaving.
One night or two before leaving on the trip, pack your clothes and equipment.
Remember to pack enough clothes for two days more than you plan to be on the trip.
A list of some of the equipment and clothes you might need to bring is listed in the Things You'll Need section below.
Load the skis, in the vehicle, or attach them to the top of the vehicle on a roof/carriage rack.
Load the poles into the vehicle
Load largest suitcases in vehicle
Load the ski boots
Load smaller more expendable suitcases around larger ones
On very top, store smaller coolers that would contain food/snacks that might be needed along the road trip.