everyone.Issue invitations : When thinking of a birthday party celebration, the first thing that comes to our mind is invitations.
Since the theme has already been decided on, sending out the party invitations in a truly Hawaiian style would be a good idea.
You can send out a beach bottle invitation.
Start by finding some clear water bottles and fill with a little sand and sea shells to give it a beach effect.
Take a piece of bright blue color paper and write the party details on it.
Then roll up the paper and place it inside the bottle.
This will truly impress your guests.
Hang the decorations : To give your party a special Hawaiian effect, you can convert your party area into a tropical paradise.
For a beach effect you can decorate with candles, luau lights, bamboo torches, and coconuts.
If indoors, you can hang green and blue streamers from the ceiling to create a lagoon effect.
You can also decorate the walls with palm trees that have been painted on poster board or cardboard and cut out.
For the walls indoors, you can hang posters of tropical islands or travel posters.
Drape fishnets over a fence outdoors or over the luau birthday party table to create a tropical look.
You can also hang tiny shell necklaces around the yard or party room.
Find Hawaiian Party games : Games and activity play an important role in making your party a memorable event.
For Hawaiian Luau birthday party you can go for
Dress Up Relay Game: For this game you will need to prepare 2 bowls filled with paper notes - one that has the names of the guests and other with the activity you want them to perform.
Some examples of activities are wiggle like a fish or roar like a lion.
The birthday child then gets to pick one name and one activity and then announce what the guest needs to perform.
The best performer turns out to be a winner.
Imitate An Animal Game: For this game you will have to prepare male and female outfits ahead of time.
Male outfits could include a shirt, hat, pants, shoes and a tie and the women outfits could include a blouse, skirt, hat, shoes, necklace and a purse.
Then divide your guests intoteams and make them stand on different sides of the yard or party area.
When the game starts, the first guest for each team needs to put on an outfit and run to the opposite side of the yard or party area.
Then they have to take off their outfit and hand it to the next team member.
The team which finishes first is the winner.