car.Write your title down.
If you have a choice of titles decide NOW and write it down.
"Wikihow should not be editable".
How far do you agree?
Decide on your paragraphs and these come off your title.
You must have an introduction and a conclusion.
You need about three other paragraphs.
Vandalism, Range of Subjects, Rules and regulating
Start researching.
Find points to put in your middle paragraphs.
Some paragraphs might only have one point but others may have three, four or five!
This is one of the hardest steps and is the core to your essay.
It only needs to be written in short hand.
Keep a record of websites, books (including page numbers) and articles you use to help you More People > More knowledge, people work in different fields
Back up your points.
For each point you write you need to find evidence to prove it.
This could be a quote or an example.
If it's a quote be sure you write it down exactly how it is so you can copy it from your mind map.
How to Teach Piano would require a piano teacher to write it and How to Read and Speak Like a TV News Reporter would need the experience of a reporter.
Write your introduction.
Just a few key points for the plan.
Make sure you don't try to put too much in the introduction.
At the moment Wikihow is editable by everyone.
This is its unique feature and makes it an ever expanding compilation of "how tos".
However, it can lead to some problems.
Write the conclusion points.
Make sure you tie up everything nicely and that you've answered the question.
You should also say your opinion here if appropriate.
Overall I think that Wikihow should be editable by all because this is what makes it so useful.
Write links between the paragraphs.
The best essays will link between the paragraphs so it all flows smoothly.
Often this is quite difficult and sometimes you might just have to move abruptly to a new topic but avoid this as much as possible.
There are so many subjects (paragraph 2) but there have to be ways in which the public can decide when topics are irrelevant (1)
Consider all the help that you've got from teachers such as the mark scheme.
Make sure you've included everything they've suggested.
It might be useful to make a checklist.
For some things you'll have to wait until you've written it.
Check this again after you've finished it too.