everyone.Watch the video below.
Good preparation is the key
Do some homework.
In the days before a date, take time out to catch up with current events and hot topics.
These are great conversation starters and you will be able to impress your date with your knowledge.
Try to remember as much as you can about previous conversations together so you can follow up on them.
Have a couple of funny stories or conversation pieces up your sleeve in case you need them.
There are now many dating advice online forums and sites that one can access in the internet.
The problem with some of these sites is that they are not actually made by professionals who have studied and researched their dating advice.
It would be prudent to also consider the legitimacy of the dating advice as well as the veracity of it.
Start looking and feeling good in advance.
Set time aside for exercise in the days before the date, whether it's yoga or push ups.
Eat well and get plenty of sleep.
What To wear?
Pick your clothes early.
You should have several outfits laid out before the day of the date.
This way you won't have any last minute panics when you realize you have a spaghetti stain down your favourite shirt.
Plus, it will allow you to try on a few different looks on the day of the date and see which one fits your mood most comfortably at the time.
Clean up on the day of the date.
Take a nice, long shower or bath.
Ensure you have clean hair and nails.
You should smell good, but not overpowering.
Avoid heavy perfumes and aftershaves, especially if your date could be allergic.
Ladies, go easy when applying make-up and aim for a natural but groomed look.
If things go well he will eventually see you without make-up - and you will want him to recognize you at that point.
Shortly before leaving for your date, floss and brush your teeth thoroughly.
Think positively . You're going out to enjoy yourself, after all.
Don't start worrying about what disasters could happen, because that way they are far more likely to.
If you are getting nervous, call a good friend, watch your favourite comedy show or listen to upbeat music.
Loosen up.
Focus on having fun and you inevitably will.