flow.Wake up.
Start your day right by waking up early.
Set your alarm for seven at the latest.
It's best to get a good night's sleep the night before so that you'll have enough rest for the day.
Also, setting a habit of getting up early will give you more time to spend the day, and eventually more energy.
Wash up.
You will probably be a little drowsy, especially if you tend to sleep in late a lot.
Try splashing cold water on your face to wake you up a little more.
Then follow some simple hygiene routine.
Wash your face, brush your teeth, shave if you must.
Excercise.
After you cleaned up a bit, get your body warmed up with some physical health practices.
Stretch out your muscles and go for an early morning jog.
Maybe you have some exercise machine at home.
But don't overdo it if it's your first time or you haven't done it in a while, that could cause soreness that will take away from you energy.
Energize.
Once you're all sweaty from your workout, take a shower to wash up and eat a well prepared breakfast.
Give yourself something extra like tea or coffee and give yourself a view to enjoy.
It's the most important meal of the day and you will need it for whatever work you have to do.
Clean.
Here's the fun part.
Start by washing your breakfast dishes and anything that's been sitting in your sink.
After, tackle all your rooms.
If you are unsure of how you should clean, try this article: [ How To Clean Out Your Home ].
Make sure all the junk and trash that's probably been rotting is removed.
That's your first main goal here.
Making your bed is a good idea also if you don't know where to start.
Organize The best way to get your work done is making sure you have a clean space with everything in its place.
Start by throwing away papers you don't need.
If you have a lot of books, a bookshelf would be ideal.
Fold clothes and either hang them up in a closet or fold them and put them away in a drawer.
If you have any old junk in your closet, recycle them or throw them out.
It only clutters everything and collects dust.
Redecorate.
Sometimes, you just need an entirely new kind of place to work in.
Try moving furniture around for your optimal feng shui setting.
If your budget allows it, buy some paint and accessories for your home to make it feel new again.
Choose a design that best fits your work needs and personal tastes.
Busy yourself.
If you have any little odd jobs you want to do, like tackling your garage, fixing up your car, writing that novel, etc., go for it!
Get yourself into the habit of doing something that you enjoy but constructive at the same time.
If you just waste your free time everyday, you'll eventually end up throwing all of you time away.