necessary.Decide how long you plan to stay.
Make a decision on what length of time you plan to visit Lake Tahoe.
The length of time you rent a house in Lake Tahoe can determine cost and affect your budget considerably.
The length of stay will also be a factor in which home you choose to rent since certain homes may have limited rental openings.
Always find out if there is availability for extra days if you choose to stay longer than planned.
Look for discounts on extended stays.
A week-long stay can run cheaper per day than a-day stay because the owner of the home will want to rent their house out for as long as possible.
Choose the dates you will stay in Lake Tahoe.
Various dates can change the cost of a rental home significantly.
Pick out more than one date if possible so that you can compare costs and will have options if the date you originally chose is more expensive or you can t find openings on that date.
Keep in mind that the height of tourist season is usually the summer season, but Lake Tahoe can be very busy during the snow season as well due to its skiing opportunities.
Talk to the visitor s bureau for more details on specific dates that are ideal to visit in Lake Tahoe.
Locate homes for rent by doing a search through one of the popular search engines.
Find out the amenities included in your rental property, such as microwave, swimming pool, and washer and dryer.
Decide which amenities you need for your family to feel comfortable in your vacation getaway and which amenities you can do without to help save money.
Look for special deals for off-season times and take note of any deposits that are required.
Call a travel agent if you don t feel comfortable choosing a rental home on your own.
Determine the location of the house to the areas of interest you are planning to visit.
Make sure to know the exact number of people that will be staying so you can get an ample amount of bedrooms and living space.
Factor in costs such as spending money, travel costs, food, gasoline and toll fees if you drive.
Add in additional fees for things like car rental, ski rental, tours, deposits and parking.
There are numerous incidentals that may arise that you should prepare for.