movements.Make a master list of all the items, who donated them, how much they are worth, and who went and asked at that business.
If you are going to do this again next year, it is nice to have the same people go to the same businesses each year.
Include space on your master list to write who won the item, their phone number, and how much they paid.
This way you can make sure they get their items and you know how much money you made.
When making a master list, consider using a computerized program.
Another volunteer might be willing to input the information.
If so, make columns for donor name, address, and phone number, item number, item description, and value.
Put a number on each item.
Use small blank stickers or labels available at general stores and office supply businesses.
If you have more than a few items and if any of them are similar, it makes keeping track much easier.
Put the same number next to the item on your master list.
Print bidding sheets.
Write the name of the item, a short description of the item, how much it is worth, and who donated it.
(This gives them a bit of advertising as a thank you for donating.)
Include a minimum bid (generally 20% of the retail value) and minimum bid increase increments.
(One rule of thumb for minimum increase: $1 for items up to $50, $2 for $50-$100, $5 for items over $100).
Make sure there is space for the bidder s name, phone number, and the amount they bid.
Make a list of supplies you think you ll need and go shopping.
(See Things You ll Need below.)
Try to buy supplies at a warehouse store with a generous return policy.
If the store requires a membership, keep that in mind when sending someone on a run for last-minute supplies.
And make sure that person has a cell phone and that a key person at the event has that number.
After they have left for a supplies run, you ll surely find something else that needs to be picked up.
Buy plenty of pens and markers, some whiteout tape, extra bid sheets, and an extra roll of tape to tape your bid sheets down.
You don't want people waiting to write down how much money they will give you.
Recruit volunteers.
A contact list, especially an email list, is handy for this.
You will need: volunteers to help set up; judges to monitor and close tables at the appointed time and make sure minimum bid and minimum increase requirements were met; a bank crew to organize bid sheets (especially of multiple winners) and collect money from winning bids; and a clean up crew.
Select volunteers willing to be officials.
These people will need to know the rules of the silent auction and who to go to for questions they can t answer.
During the event they will wear something hat, vests, jackets, or sashes that designates them as officials.
Start setting up early; a day before the event.
You ll need extra time not only to set up but to allow for any mistakes.
If you can, set up a day or two before the auction so you don't have to stress about it.
Consider designating someone who is willing to go to the store to buy forgotten items.
Lay out all the items and the bid sheets so people can see them.
If you have a lot of items you may have to be pretty creative.
For example, some things might be better hung on walls or placed on display easels.
Don't worry if the bid sheet isn't right next to the item.
Just make it close.
That's what the numbers are for.
(A number sticker should be on each item that matches each bidder sheet for that item.)
Have a volunteer making up bid sheets for items without them and certificates for items that need those.
(Certificates are for items such as donated services that don t already have a certificate.
You can also use your own certificates for gift certificates with small print that are hard to read.)
Have judges monitor the tables to make sure bid sheets are staying in place and people are following the minimum bid and minimum increase rules.
People will probably have questions about some items, so try to prepare the judges to answer them.
Give people plenty of warning as closing time approaches.
Make announcements at least 10 and 5 minutes before.
If you have one closing, announce it loudly and clearly.
If you have interval closing times, announce loudly and clearly which closing it is. People will want to bid right up to the very end.
End at that time.
(Choose one person's watch to use and put them in charge of the time since everyone's watch is different.)
When the bidding time ends, have judges quickly pick up all the pens and sheets so no one can be sneaky.
Judges need to circle the winning bid and draw a line through the empty spaces of the bid sheets, so no one can add their name after the closing time.
Judges need to check to make sure the winning bids have followed the minimum bid and minimum increase rules.
If minimum bid was not met, set that sheet aside.
Organizers can decide later how to deal with it.
If minimum increase was not met, select the most recent high bidder (above the minimum bid) who did meet the minimum bid.
The judges then take the bid sheets to the bank.
Have bank volunteers sort the sheets by last name alphabetical order.
If anyone has won more than one item (a common occurrence), staple those sheets together.
That way you only need to have them pay once.
If you have just a few items, you can call people's names and have them come get their stuff.
Cordon off the bank area and make everyone wait.
They will be anxious to get their stuff.
Make them wait.
Encourage people who plan to continue bidding to wait to pay until after they are finished bidding.
Call people to the bank when the bankers are ready.
Either call bidders up one at a time by name or just have them form a line.
If you are using the latter method, the bankers will have to search through the bid sheets for the bidder s name, so it's important that the bid sheets are alphabetized.
If someone has won one or more items and doesn t appear on their own, set those bid sheets aside.
When you re just about done with the people in line, have the emcee announce their names in case they are still at the event.
Deal with the leftover items.
After the line of people are gone you will probably have things left over.
These people went home, didn't know they won, or whatever.
That's why you have their phone number on the bid sheet.
If you can t leave them at the event location, you will probably have to take them home.
Make sure you or a volunteer has the bid sheets with the phone numbers.
In the following days, deal with the leftover items however you have planned.
For items that met the minimum bid but weren t picked up, you or a volunteer will need to call the bidder.
Sort out all the bid sheets that go to the same person.
They may have bought one thing or twenty.
Add up their total and call to tell them they have won.
Ask if they could please come get their things.
You may have to be flexible about arranging a time to meet them.
If you have lots left over, divide up the pile so no one has to call 20 people.
This part can be a big hassle, so divvy the work to make it easier.
Prepare for derelict bidders.
Undoubtedly there will be people who don't want to pay for the things they bid on.
Call the next person on the bid sheet and see if they still want it.
Count the money and checks before going to the bank.
Bank tellers can make mistakes.
Look for checks that are made out improperly.
The bank may still accept them, but you should be aware of them.
Keep money aside to pay people who bought things for the event but haven t been reimbursed.
Return any items you borrowed to hold the event.