timeSome builders prefer to work on the floor surrounded by their pieces for inspiration
Store them unsorted.
This method is most useful for collections of up to 5000 pieces.
Place all your LEGO toys in the center of a large cloth such as a small bed sheet.
Grab the corners, lift the sheet with all the contents inside, and drop it into a bucket or drawer.
The sheet can be customized by cutting it into a circular shape and adding a drawstring to make it easier to pull together.
You can also get purpose made Lego storage sacks that do this well.
This method has the advantage of assuring that everything is kept in one place.
At building time, the collection can easily be spread out over a wide area, making it easy to see all the pieces at once and easy to select the pieces you want.
Clean up is super fast and easy.
If your collection is too big to remain unsorted, however, proceed to the following steps.
These LEGO toys are sorted by set into boxes designed for scrapbook paper (12x12)
Sort them by set : This method is ideal for builders who enjoy building the sets from the original instructions over and over again.
Place each set into a separate box , or combine multiple sets from the same theme into a box.
The boxes that your sets came in are usually larger than necessary but can make a great place to store the LEGO toys that came from inside that box.
Alternatively, purchase storage boxes at a discount department store.
Plastic bags are a cost effective solution, and only take as much space as the bricks in the bags.
Clear boxes or bags make it easy to tell which sets are in which box.
You can apply labels to the boxes, or tape images from the original boxes to the outside of your storage bins.
BOX4BLOX automatically grades the Lego by size through a series of grids
Sort them by size : The Lego pieces can be sorted by hand, or a tool such as BOX4BLOX , which sorts the LEGO through a series of trays with different sized grids in the bottom.
The attraction of this system is that there is no need to tip the Lego all over the floor because the pieces can be easily found from their individual trays, especially the hard to find pieces which end up in the bottom tray.
This system is ideal for storing the average family household Lego collection, but it is also very handy for the more serious Lego enthusiast to assist in organizing keeping larger Lego collections in order.
These LEGO toys are sorted by category into drawers manufactured by Akro-Mils
Sort them by category : This method is ideal for collections of more than 10,000 pieces.
Before your collection is large enough to sort by part, you might decide to sort your bricks, plates and slopes separately.
You might consult a database such as Bricklink , which has organized every LEGO piece into categories, or you may develop your own system of categories.
A LEGO collection sorted by part across several shelving units.
Sort them by part.
At this level of sorting you will need many containers.
Many collectors develop very finicky habits about the containers they use.
See below in Things You'll Need for many examples.
See Sources and Citations for examples of many large collections sorted in this fashion.