get-togethersDe-Clutter, Clean, and/or Organize all rooms in the house - This should be your very 1st step.
Get rid of or pack up anything you don't think you'll need to use right away.
Clean your drawers and cabinets (potential buyers will open them up to look inside) and put anything you think you might need in a small, organized box in an out of the way place.
Address any and all repairs that need attention.
Inspect your house inside and out to search for cracks, etc. The small investment of time and money will mean a bigger return when it comes to the sale price.
Don't forget to check for leaky faucets, squeaky doors, and burnt-out light bulbs.
You may even want to consider repainting your walls with neutral colors so that they appear fresh and clean.
De-Clutter, clean and organize kitchen counter tops and cupboards.
Counter tops and shelves should not be filled with food and appliances.
You want your kitchen space to appear large, clean and functional.
Make sure your dishes are stacked correctly, turn your cups and mugs so that they're all facing the same direction, and make sure everything (including your spice jars) are clean and in order.
Keep the bathroom as bare as possible, never leave your personal items in view when showing your home.
In fact, depersonalizing your whole property is a powerful selling tip.
Buyers will be more attracted to your house when they can imagine themselves living there.
To make your house look lived-in without looking like anyone actually lives there, pack away into storage:
All family photos
Holiday souvenirs
Trophies & certificates
Collectible items
Children s artwork
Home Gyms that haven't been used in months
Whether selling professionally or by yourself, make sure you have some fliers made up with details and photos of your house for prospective buyers to take away with them.
Know that when the house has a showing it should appeal to all five of the senses :
Sight: Open the blinds and drapes to let in natural light.
Keep clutter away and consider keeping your pet out of the home for that day.
Smell: Put out flowers and candles in the main rooms of the home and a colorful bowl of fruit on the dining table.
Taste: A hot pot of coffee helps with taste and smell also.
Hearing.
Turn off the sound on all television sets and computers, and have some easy listening or jazz music playing in the background softly.
Touch.
Have your guests sit on the softest couch, and make sure everything is clean and dust-free.
Space.
When showing guests around your property, let them enter the room first.
In smaller rooms e.g bathrooms, stay at the door.
Too many bodies in too small a space causes a problem.