cups.Build on what you know already about design.
Talk to other stagers to find out tips and tricks to starting a successful business.
Talk to stagers in different towns.
Remember, you are about to be the competition.
Learn from their mistakes
Take your housing market into consideration
Keep track of trends in your town's real estate market.
Also, look at neighboring towns.
Network with Realtors.
They know what's selling and what isn't.
They can also provide a long term source of business.
Take them to lunch, visit their open houses and get a good feeling for what they think sells.
Discuss your idea with someone familiar with real estate and your area.
Each town is different and may differ from what you see on TV shows.
Determine trends in your market that will help you help agents sell homes.
Find out what types of homes are needing this service
Establish what range you can expect to successfully get business and make a profit
Create a business plan to help you stay focused.
Establish what funds will be needed and outline how you will spend them
Even if you aren't needing a loan for start up a good business plan is an excellent way to stay on task.
It's also good to have handy and follow should your business take off and you start considering loans to grow.
Determine how much you will need to set aside to market to real estate agents, home sellers, home flippers and small builders.
Outline where you will spend your money to avoid getting in over your head.
Go to the small business administration and understand what permits, licenses, and taxes you need to know about.
(This step seems more overwhelming than it is.)
Come up with a business name or use your own name.
Business cards are an essential tool for your business.
Get great looking professional ones.
Also consider other marketing tools like pens, notepads, magnets, etc.
Create a business card.
This is one of the most important tool for getting started.
Talk to a local printer and have a card created and printed.
Also consider other marketing swag such as pens, note pads, refrigerator magnets, etc.
Aggressively market your business.
Market your business on a website.
Show pictures of staged rooms.
Create before and after photos.
Hand business cards and marketing items out to people who can refer business your way.
Also consider businesses that would be good to work with to help you make more money.
Realtors
Residential painting companies (people often use painters when getting ready to sell)
Residential contractors or repair companies (people often use repairmen when getting ready to sell)
Office managers in condominium and townhouse offices.
(Many larger complexes have security, offices, staff, etc. They will know of people about to sell and it's in their best interest to sell at a great price.)
Large companies and military relocation offices
Moving companies
Follow up regularly, remind them you are still in business, take them to lunch if they can provide substantial leads, and when someone does send you a referral you should send a thank you card and a gift appropriate for the amount of the business (dinner gift certificates, cash, flowers, spa certificate, etc.)
Props are essential.
You'll need everything from furniture to pillows and accessories.
Make contacts with rental companies and shop thrift stores for extra pieces.
You may be staging empty homes.
Collect props for staging homes.
You may be able to buy great furniture and accessories from moving sales, thrift stores, etc. Make sure they're free of odors or stains.
You don't want to defeat the purpose of staging by adding dirty or smelly items.
You may need to store some pieces
Develop a relationship with furniture rental businesses (not just ones that rent to the public but also ones that furnish corporate apartments as they can give you a good deal, make a little money and save you some.)
Consider renting a storage facility or having a building added to your property.
As your business grows you may be able to rent part of a warehouse at a discounted price.
Hire another "hand" to help.
Think of some people you can bring along on a job with you.
Think of friends with great decorating skills.
This could be a great project for retired friends, soccer moms, etc.
Consider working with a local contractor or painter and bring them along.
It's often more than just moving or setting up furniture.
You may need to suggest paint and other cosmetic work.
Learn that when you get a client, set up a consultation.
Talk to furniture stores.
They may be willing to rent damaged or discontinued pieces.
Some people may chose to buy the furniture with the deal making a sale for the store too.
Create a step by step plan that specifies what you will do.
Listen and establish clear, open lines of communication.
Listen more than talk.
Remember it's their home.
The more you listen the more you'll be able to help.
Set your rates to cover your business costs and expenses.
Under-promise and over-deliver.
Be on site to supervise everything.
Your clients do not want to feel passed off to employees.