addressMake a business plan . Do a SWOT analysis of yourself and the cattle industry you will be entering.
Plan what kind of cows you want without looking at any breeds, and what kind of farm you wish to operate.
Try and aim for being a low-cost producer.
Locate the area where you want to raise cattle for the next 10 to 30 or more years.
This is important because you need to find a location that you are used to or really like and are confident you can raise your animals in.
Location can range from as far north as Alberta, Canada, to as far south as Uruguay, South America.
Factors such as climate, seasonal variances, markets, vegetation and topography differ for every location that you may choose.
Once you've made a decision where you want to start up, find land that is up for sale.
Keep in mind that you may need to invest in a down-payment, a loan , or a mortgage for the land you wish to buy, if you do not have enough money to pay it off within the year you buy it.
Land prices tend to increase in areas where there is a higher population, or land is in higher demand than in other areas.
Also note that it is highly recommended to buy a farm or ranch that already has the facilities and fencing laid out for cattle than buying a farm that needs to be converted into the one of your dreams.
Find out more about this land location.
Contact the local county extension office of the area you are interested in to get more information on soil type, vegetation, stocking rates and carrying capacity for pastures or rangelands, cattle market demands, etc. Also visit the neighbors that are in the area you wish to start farming/ranching in, and talk with them.
Often the neighbors will provide you with more information than what a government agency office can give you.
Start small, don't spend your money in the first 2 years after buying the farm.
If things need repairs, repair only the fencing or facilities that are top priority over other things, such as renovating the barn or the house, or redoing the handling facilities to what you plan on doing.
Buy machinery at an auction, not brand new.
Buy the equipment and other items that you need right now, not what you want.
You will get what you want over the next 5 to 10 years as you grow your new operation.
Start off with a handful of cows.
Don't go whole-hog and buy as many cows as you can stock on the land you bought for a whole year.
Buy good cows, ones that have great conformation , temperament, mothering ability and forage convertibility (among other things), and avoid those that look thin and close to breaking down.
Heifers may be an option if you wish to wait for 2 years until you sell their calves; 3-fers or bred cow with calf at side is another option, since you can sell the calf in a month or two, and wait for another few months before the cow calves out.
Experienced cows tend to be easier to manage and handle than heifers.
Avoid buying a bull if you only have 4 or 5 females; buy a bull only if you have at least 10 cows, or do not wish to use AI (artificial insemination) any longer.
If you have only 2 or 5 cows, AI is the cheapest and best (but not always the most effective) option for breeding all your cows.
If you don't want to use AI, then rent a bull or find another cattle producer that will agree to keep your cows for a couple months to have his bull breed them for you.