document.Find out whether there are any current clubs meeting in your area.
You may not want to go to the work of starting your own club if you can tap into an established group.
Attend a meeting at a club, whether it s in your location or a different one.
This can help you get a basic understanding for how to conduct meetings.
If you have clubs in the area, you may want to consider what you can do differently in order to attract members.
Evaluate whether or not you need to incorporate a business to operate the club.
If you plan to collect dues or to have money exchanged for other reasons, you may want to operate the club under the umbrella of a corporation.
This can protect your personal assets, when done correctly, in the event that something happens with financial ramifications.
Create bylaws for your club.
Even if you don t incorporate, you still want to define the mission of the club and establish rules and regulations for members.
This can help ensure that everyone in the club acts using the same guidelines.
Consider who you want to involve in the creation of the bylaws.
While you can come up with the bylaws on your own, you may find it beneficial to appoint board members with voting options to ensure all members feel represented in the process.
Set up the board, if needed, and determine how future board members will take office.
At a minimum, you want to establish a president, a secretary and treasurer.
You may want to establish term limits for the time members can serve on the board.
For example, you may want to offer annual dues payable the first month a new member joins, or you may want to work with monthly dues.
Figure out how you want to recruit members.
Set up a website if you want an online presence.
A website can help people find your club who may not otherwise see your promotions.
Start with the members you have.
Even if it is only one or two people, you can benefit by testing the structure for your meeting before your club gets more people.
You may want to pay professionals to come in and share their knowledge with the club.
In some cases, a speaker may offer to host the meeting free of charge in exchange for the promotion of his or her services to club members.