away.Be relaxed and stay positive.
Your life will change dramatically.
Things will not go the way you wish and you need to have a positive outlook on situations.
The mood that you are in or have will reflect on the baby; so if you're feeling depressed or frustrated, the baby will act on the behavior.
If you come to a point where you cannot handle a baby in your arms, either lay them down and walk away or hand them to someone else.
Never under any circumstance, shake a baby.
Cherish the memories.
Between birth and by the time your baby will hit the 1 year mark, there are so many "new" things, events, and moments that will occur during this time period.
Create a baby journal , scrapbook , or binder of anything you want.
Take lots of pictures and share them online with friends and family.
Discover your baby's abilities as time goes and appreciate them.
Avoid procrastination on other things.
Taking care of a baby may consume most of your time and day, resulting in procrastination of putting other assignments or duties to the side.
Place the baby in a car seat and set it on the floor of where you are, for example the kitchen if you're making dinner or washing the dishes.
This way, the baby knows where you are, feels secured, and can still interact - while you can accomplish needs.
Do laundry or other "heavy duty" things while they're taking a nap.
Accept any help that is offered.
Whether if it's getting a job/chore done, needing quality time to yourself , or getting a little nap of your own, don't turn down good offers if someone asks.
Remember that you aren't "Super Woman" and you cannot always complete everything by yourself.
Take this time to clear your head and take the load off your shoulders.
Get a routine and stick with it.
Having a routine organizes your life and makes the day more comfortable for both you and your baby.
The longer time period you stick with the routine, the baby will recognize the schedule more.
Know that during the night hours, there should be no play-time whatsoever: it should be a straight feeding or sleeping.
Have a time goal of when the bath should be given and the first attempt of putting them to sleep.
If you want to take them outside for the day, set a strict daily time to return home so the routine can continue.
Sleep when they do.
Being a stay-at-home mother to newborns or babies is an exhausting job.
Change and match your sleeping patterns to theirs.
Realize that you may need to sacrifice doing things that you may want to do while they're sleeping, but know that you and your health comes first on that list.
As the months go by, your baby will sleep for a longer period of time during the night.
Use your own judgment of how you use the time, but know that a 6 month old will still wake up in the middle of the night.
Interact as much as possible.
There are so many ways and possibilities of interacting with a baby.
Talk to them while playing, sing to them while changing diapers , imitate their sounds and cooing noises, interact with other family members or pets , or play games.
Use "tummy time" as much as possible.
Start teaching them how to roll over to their sides and how to hold their head up by themselves.
Recognize their signals and wants.
Newborns will be a little more difficult in trying to find out what is wrong or how to fix a situation.
But as time goes, babies will show signs and signals to what they want.
They will also want to be in the most comfortable position, so you may find yourself walking around while feeding them instead of sitting down or being held in a specific way.
Get your baby to interact with outside sources.
Take them to a newly parent class or meeting, a park, or a place that you frequently go to, for example a coffee shop.
Interaction with your baby makes them more comfortable around non-family members and will adapt to smile at strangers.
Invest in a stroller or a baby sling and go for a walk on a regular basis.
Have them see the world through their new eyes.