1 Consider adding voluntary child content protections" on your computer such as your obtaining filtering programs : This is for your own family's security from viewing objectionable materials.
Consider supporting candidates who advocate freedom for private economic applications of the Internet.
Help keep new information technologies to be realized by freedom of use but avoiding government license, design, regulation and/or management.
Help start an organization possibly for age-school individuals (local, state or national) to get your and their ideas of individual freedom heard and/or seen on the Internet -- or join an existing organization that seems effective.
Individually oppose re-classifying the Internet as a regulated public utility.
Consider whether that is, potentially, a government takeover of the Internet for political control and taxation purposes?
Consider working and voting against candidates who support unnecessarily controlling your freedoms and that of others with possible interventions that may be dangerous to your freedom, if it were to tell you how the Internet may be restricted and "allowed" to be used.
Help elect candidates to make government efficient, with less duplication and less controlling, but instead to not hinder prospering through freedom of individual and private enterprise for Internet access :
Support protecting telephone, wireless and cable Internet access;
Encourage private investing in those facilities;
Work for your candidates who promote ease of private enterprise and individual freedom ?
Oppose those who do not maintain (in all aspects) the individual and free enterprise system itself.
Be a booster of the principles of liberty, and free rights by your own political efforts.
Make your contributions to support press freedom / unregulated Internet.
Tele-medicine, medical "house calls" (by Internet);
Distance learning, training, education;
Consumer empowerment to work (and browse and shop) online.
Oppose government (sponsored) monopoly : as was the old "telephone company monopolies" -- and if so, would you then work for ensuring the following personal freedoms?
Help support the Internet freedom as the creator of wealth by not crippling freedom of access or of business use and investment -- or not.
Resist government interference in how the freedom of the market works in the Internet similar to the freedom of the press.
Consider joining with others to boycott certain malefactors, and work for your rights and ideas, ideals and beliefs
Work with others against "one size fits all," which does not fit, by possibly organizing
Resist central federal or state detailed economic planning.
Work to protect consumers access to and promote "free, critical journalism" by protecting the Internet from government censorship or a possible takeover of the Internet.
Support keeping information services like Internet access unregulated as possible.
Fight against reclassification that could lead to a government regulatory bureaucracy -- and would you consider that a takeover, good or bad ?
Would you support or oppose the taxpayers being required to support and force content that they object to be blocked ? Perhaps that could be either left or right wing censorship which could lead to the pendulum swinging back and forth in content regulation (in turn and vice versa)...