bagsRemember Why You Teach Children Packing Skills ! Yes, it would be quicker and easier to just pack their things yourself.
But your child will never learn to prepare, organize, and think ahead unless you teach it.
This is a critical point: you will need to be patient and focus on the process as much as the actual packing.
Pack Ahead of TimeUnless you have to , pack a few days ahead of time.
This will help you be patient with a child's pace of doing things, and teach thinking ahead.
Select Appropriate Luggage.
Help locate or buy appropriate travelling gear, whether it is a backpack, suitcase, duffel bag, or rolling luggage.
Remember that a child cannot carry more than 25%-30% of his or her body weight safely.
Avoid too many pieces of luggage: the more pieces, the more is easy to lose.
If you are flying in the United States, keep in mind checked baggage often incurs a fee.
Help Your Child Pack Your Bags.
An excellent place to start is to have your child help you pack.
You can model what you need, how to organize your items, and why.
Ask questions, such as, "If I want to go in the pool, what do I need to pack?"
Have your child check on number of items: (If you are away four days, you'll need four pairs of boxers, for instance).
Help your child with skills like folding clothing, rolling socks, and zippering.
Have fun with it!
A little silliness can drive important points home...for instance, you can't pack your entire sock drawer in your bag!
Maybe you need to make some choices!
Help Your Child Get Packed.
Now that you've helped model packing, your child can get set.
Ask guiding questions: "We're going to be where it's snowy this weekend.
What sweater will keep you warm?"
"We will be gone a week.
So how many outfits do you need?"
*Set limits as appropriate.
Let your child have some independence and freedom.
However, that Batman halloween costume is not appropriate for Cousin Jose's wedding.
*Beyond clothes, consider toiletries : soap, shampoo, sunscreen, etc.
Bring Bedding, Etc. Travelling means packing clothes, but it can also mean inflatable mattresses, sleeping bags, blankets, pillows, sports equipment, camping gear, bicycles, and anything else that's necessary.
What Else is Going ? Children are easily bored on trips, and a little entertainment can go a long way.
It may be wise to have a small bag of travelling entertainments and comfort objects.
But keep a limit on things: too much become a bulky burden rather than something to do while waiting for the train.
Double-Check His or Her Packing.
In all likelihood, with your guidance, your child probrably has done a decent job of packing.
But check that bag before you head out.
Children are unpredictable.
Your child might have decided suddenly, last minute, that instead of packing her best dress for going to Easter dinner, her bumblebee tap-dance costume would be better.