out.Remember that Australia is in the Southern Hemisphere.
That means its seasons are opposite what people living in Northern Hemisphere locations like North America or Europe experience.
Know your travel seasons for a Sydney trip.
High season is when costs are highest: January through April and October through mid-December.
Low season is when travel and lodging expenses are at their lowest: May through August.
Other times of the year are known as "shoulder" seasons that fall in the middle of costs and crowds for travel to Sydney.
Compete with the crowds when you visit Sydney during the longer days of summer from December to February.
Beaches are busy with swimming and water-related sports, but most outdoor activities are popular.
Summer holidays for school children occur in January.
This is when Australian families take time off to travel.
Sydney Festival is a huge event in January.
Humidity is sometimes a problem.
Some nature attractions close on hot and windy days due to the fire danger.
Summer temperatures averagedegrees Fahrenheit (26 degrees Celsius), but can push up more than 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) at times.
Visit Sydney for one of its many annual festivals.
In addition to New Year's Eve and January's Sydney Festival, other popular events include:
February/March: Gay & Lesbian Mardi Gras.
April: Royal Easter Show.
June: Sydney Film Festival.
November: Sculpture by the Sea.
Travel to Sydney from June to August.
This is when Sydney experiences winter.
Temperatures, prices and crowds drop in this low season.
Average daytime temperatures are around 62 degrees Fahrenheit (17 degrees Celsius), but nights can drop to below 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius).
Take a Sydney trip in spring (September to November) or autumn (March through May).
You're looking at a more affordable trip, while the weather stays pretty nice.
Temperatures average in the 50s to low 70s Fahrenheit (teens Celsius).
Fall tends to be wetter than spring and can be chilly on May evenings.