summer.Get the right size gym ball . This is important to make sure you have correct posture for your exercises.
If you are under five feet three inches (160cm): You need a ball that inflates to around 21.6" (55cm).
Between five foot three and five foot eight (cm to 172.72cm): Then you will need a ball inflating to 25.5" (65cm).
Five foot eight (.72cm) and above: The ball should inflate to 29.5" (75cm).
Make sure it can take you from early pregnancy right through to late pregnancy
Either get a gym ball specific for pregnancy or check the weight limit.
You should aim for a ball that supports at least 250-300 pounds (113.39kg to 136kg) and it must have a feature called 'anti-burst'.
Inflate the ball.
Your ball should be firm to the touch, but not hard - usually about 70 percent of its size is the right amount of inflation.
It is also recommended to leave the ball 24 hours after inflating before you begin using it.
The firmer the ball, the less stability it has, and the harder the exercises will be for you.
Sit on the ball.
Make sure you have a chair or sofa nearby in case you need it to steady yourself.
Place your feet approximately 20-25 inches (50.8cm to 63.5cm) apart.
Keep your spine straight, but leaning slightly forward.
This will help to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles, which is something that is very important for pregnancy in order to prepare your body for an easier labour.
Experience the benefit of simply sitting on the ball.
In order to balance on a gym ball you have no choice but to sit correctly, keeping your back straight and pelvis aligned, which reduces backache and helps your baby into a good position.
So if you're pregnant, but too tired for exercises, just sitting on your ball instead of the sofa can still help strengthen your muscles and ease pressure on your back.
Begin gentle exercises, such as the following.
Make sure you are supporting your bump if needed, and always stop immediately if you feel out of breath or uncomfortable at any time.
Rock your hips gently from side to side.
Rotate your hips in circles, do ten sets clockwise and ten sets anti-clockwise.
Rotate your pelvis in slow figures of eight.
Sit carefully on your ball, place both hands under your bump to support and bounce up and down.
Rest after every set ofor less, according to your fitness level.
Bring the ball to your birth.
If you're able to bring your ball with you, you'll find it can also be used during the early stages of labour.
Rotating your pelvis in figures of eight during contractions can help ease muscle pain.
Kneel on the floor with a towel under your knees, hugging the gym ball to your chest.
You can then lean head, shoulders and chest onto the ball, allowing your belly and lower back to relax.
Whilst kneeling as above, you can sway your body side to side or rest back on your heels.
After childbirth , your gym ball is a great way to get your pelvic floor muscles back into shape.
You can do the same exercises as whilst you were pregnant, just make sure you are not pushing your body more than you should.
Try sit-ups using the ball.
After childbirth, sit-ups are a great way to strengthen your abdominal muscles.
Wait until you have had your 6 week checkup and that your doctor has said you are okay to resume exercising.
Make sure your gym ball is against the middle of your back and your feet are around 20 inches (50.8cm) apart and flat on the floor.
Place your hands behind your head and raise as normal.
Begin by resting after every set of, then after 25, and increase according to your fitness level.
Do not rush yourself, you are still healing!
Combine with a cardio routine three or four times a week to see the best results.
You can also use your gym ball to cradle your baby, often whilst swaddled and to rock them to sleep.
Babies with head control may enjoy being held and bounced.
Older babies that can sit or stand with support may enjoy batting and playing with the gym ball on the floor.