up.Gather recycled containers , such as milk jugs, clamshell boxes, foil trays.
They should all be able to hold a depth of three inches soil.
There are also commercially manufactured containers made from organic material that allow plants to be transplanted directly into the soil when the weather warms, but the main thing you should keep in mind is choosing a container that will hold soil and keep it moist without allowing it to percolate through and leak out.
Locate some soil to fill your containers.
You can excavate topsoil from a flower bed or garden area if you have a suitable location for doing so, or you can buy a prepared potting soil.
The soil should be suitable for the type plants you are starting, but essentially, it should have a good mix of organic compost, loam, and enough sand to insure drainage.
Find an area where the humidity will be in a normal range.
A location too near heat sources may dry the planting soil too quickly, and damp locations can encourage the development of fungus, rot, or mold to the tender new growth of your new plants.
Look for a place where the plants will get sunlight, if possible.
A window facing the sunny side of your home is the best bet, but if there is none available, you may elect to purchase a sunlight spectrum light to provide artificial sunlight.
Plant the seeds in the containers according to the instructions on the seed packet, if available.
If no planting instructions are included with your seed, plant them at a generic planting depth according to type.
Most herbs and other plants with very small seeds should be planted at a shallow depth, between 1/4 and 1/2 inch.
Plants with larger seeds should germinate successfully if planted at a depth of about 1 inch.
Keep the soil in your containers moist.
Flooding or over-watering the soil can cause your seeds to rot, but allowing the soil to become too dry after the seed has germinated will likely cause it to die, so sprinkle enough water on the soil to maintain moisture without causing excess water to pool or stand.
Cover containers in which herbs are planted with plastic wrap to keep the soil moist after planting until the sprouts appear.
This will decrease or eliminate the need to water the soil, which can dislodge tiny herb seeds.
Be sure to uncover the container when the seed are sprouted.
Make sure the seedlings are not planted too thickly to successfully survive and grow until they are transplanted.
Again, small seeds require extra care, since it is easier to overpopulate a container with them.