collectingFind anything written by/about the subject : books, newspapers, magazines, Internet, journals, letters, videos, interviews, existing biographies, or an autobiography.
Know How to Evaluate the Credibility of a Source.
Only use material that is available to the public, or that you can gain explicit permission to use in your research, especially if you are going to publish and distribute the biography (or else you could end up with a lawsuit on your hands - see Warnings below).
Conduct interviews.
If you can't interview the person you're writing about, see if you can interview someone who knows or knew the subject.
You can do this in person, by phone, or through e-mail.
Remember to be courteous and professional.
Visit places significant to the subject's life.
This can be helpful in putting yourself in his or her shoes.
Visualize witnessing what they witnessed.
Imagine how they felt.
Take pictures for the biography.
If you can't visit the actual place, try to visit a place like it.
Here are some ideas:
Where the person was born and died.
Illustrate a sharp contrast or powerful similarity between the two.
The subject's "refuge".
Where did they go to recharge their batteries, or escape the chaos of their life?
Where did they find peace or inspiration?
Locations of trauma.
Were there any significantly negative events in the person's life that deeply impacted them?
An injury, death, natural disaster , car accident, or even a bad break-up ?
Explore what interested, influenced and inspired the subject.
What was he or she passionate about?
Whether it was botany, poetry , classical music, or architecture, immerse yourself in it.
Try and discover why the subject enjoyed it.
Assemble a timeline . Record every event that you can, from basic facts like birth, death and marriage, to minor personal anecdotes, like the night your subject had an argument with their spouse.
Look for patterns.
See the forest, not the trees.
Phases.
Many people go through phases during their lives.
Sometimes the phases are backlashes of each other; for example, a person may go through a very dependent phase, then a very independent phase, then something in the middle.
This can happen with relationships, too.
One may end up with a string of abusive partners, then, being fed up, starts seeking very submissive mates, then begins to prefer aloof partners, etc.
Progression/regression.
Look for a steady refining of the person's character or work, an improvement over time, leading up to a defining event that shows how far the person's come.
Alternatively, perhaps someone's life begins promisingly and gradually unravels--a tragedy of sorts.
Cycles.
Pay attention to situations that repeat themselves in a person's life.
Maybe this person reaches out, gets hurt, becomes reclusive, heals, and begins again.
Or the subject sets a lofty goal, burns out, draws wisdom from the experience, and starts over with a new goal.
Addiction also tends to play out in cycles.
Whatever the situation, it repeats itself throughout a significant portion of the person's life (maybe signifying a phase) and at some point, the person might "break the cycle".
Turning points.
What are the moments in the subject's life when their direction changed dramatically?
The birth of a child?
A near-death experience?
Hitting rock bottom?
It's the point at which a pattern changes; a new phase begins, progression become regression (or vice versa), a cycle ends or a new ones starts.
Make a thesis statement . Based on your "big picture" view of this person's life, what's a point that you can prove?
This will be your twist on the biography - what makes it unlike any other biography on this subject.
It answers the question posed in the introduction: what makes this person's life different and important ? Some ideas:
What is the significance of this person's life?
How did he or she change the world?
What would happen if this person never existed?
What is unique about what they did or made?
What led to the subject's success or demise?
A particular relationship?
A single incident of good or bad luck?
A decision by the subject?
A particular circumstance?
Decide how to recount the person's life.
Write an outline and fill in the details.
Try to use the organization to support the thesis.
Chronological.
Go by the timeline, recounting each event in the order in which it happened.
This is the simplest way to go, but it's difficult to support your thesis in this context.
Flashbacks.
Describe a recent or current situation, then "flashback" to an earlier point in that person's life.
This is good for illustrating cause and effect, or how this led to that.
You can even go in complete reverse order; begin at the end, and work your way backwards.
Work.
If the person's life is closely tied to his or her career, you can break it up by job positions or works created.
This can be tied to phases or cycles in the subject's life.
Accomplishments/events.
One idea is to start and end with events that mirror each other in some way.
Maybe you can start with a toy boat that the subject made when they were, and end off with a military submarine that they designed at age 55.