----------------------------------------

Question:

Follow up is key though for continued growth and accountability. How
would ActionPlanner do this?

Answer:

The system is probably pretty good at "accounting" and metrics to
determine what percentages of essential goals are met. I've been
working on developing a so-called expert system that can take
inventory of a persons situation and make inferences about things that
they should do to master it.  Part of it is knowing the relative
importance of goals. And so, determining which goals have been met and
what has been achieving, even in a scheduled way, would be primary to
the system, and so tracking "follow-up" would be contained within that
activity.

----------------------------------------

Question:

When does ActionPlanner become rendered unneccessary?

Answer:

I personally believe that mutual coexistence into the future of people
and assistive programs does not necessarily lead to weaknesses in the
people, but that the programs can help people to mount higher
challenges. Ideally the program would help the person achieve
independence and then interdependence (as opposed to codependence),
but I personally would want to continue using the software and work
with it as it evolves into something even more beautiful than it
already is.

----------------------------------------

Question:

How is ActionPlanner going to differ from a human setting goals and
providing information/resources to someone in poverty?

Answer:

I like to think in terms of human computer hybrid teams.  So for
instance, ActionPlanner could monitor a persons situation and provide
feedback and yet still communicate (within privacy constraints) with a
software-supported human team.  Here are some shortcomings of having
human-only teams:

+ Limited supply of such trained operators
+ limited funds to provide for the operation of such operators
+ Limited availability of constant supervision
+ Difficulty in communicating case details and load times for 
thoughts into the heads of operators

----------------------------------------

Question:

Does human interaction flaw the system? 

Answer:

Not at all, although that's an interesting idea. In some sense there
are scientific goals to achieve in a uniform interface, but I am more
interested in that kind of longitudinal study in the meal planner and
medical assistance programs (which by the way I will be writing some
grant proposals to various European medical programs that conceive of
health insurance as a right not a privilege to try to get some
assistance for open source medical diagnostic and
preemptive/preventative care software that could in turn be applied in
countries like the US where a substantial portion of the population
lacks adequate healthcare).

----------------------------------------
