Home economics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation, search
For other uses, see Home Economics (disambiguation).

Mergefrom.svg It has been suggested that Family and consumer science be merged
              into this article or section. (Discuss)

Question     This article needs additional citations for verification.
book-new.svg Please help improve this article by adding reliable references.
             Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2009)

[220px-UCHSHomeEc9]
#
A high school home economics classroom.

Home economics (also known as family and consumer sciences) is the profession
and field of study that deals with the economics and management of the home and
community.^[1] Home economics is a field of formal study including such topics
as consumer education, institutional management, interior design, home
furnishing, cleaning, handicrafts, sewing, clothing and textiles, Commercial
cooking, cooking, nutrition, food preservation, hygiene, child development,
internet safety, managing money, and family relationships.

Sexual education and drug awareness might be also covered, along with topics
such as fire prevention and safety procedures. It prepares students for
homemaking or professional careers, or to assist in preparing to fulfill
real-life responsibilities at home. It is taught in secondary schools, colleges
and universities, vocational schools, and in adult education centers; students
include women and men.

In the 19th century, home economics classes were intended to ready young women
for their duties in the home. Classes were first offered in the United States,
Canada and Great Britain, followed by Latin America, Asia, and Africa.
International organizations such as those associated with the United Nations
have been involved in starting home economics programs around the world.^[2]

Contents

  * 1 Etymology
  * 2 Content
  * 3 Areas of practice
  * 4 Historical skills
  * 5 Cleaning
  * 6 Commercial Cooking
  * 7 Finances
  * 8 Impact
  * 9 See also
  * 10 References
  * 11 External links

Etymology

The preferred name of the field of study and profession is Home Economics.
Internationally, the field of study has consistently retained the name Home
Economics and is recognised both within and beyond the boundaries of the
profession.

Content

Situated in the human sciences, home economics draws from a range of
disciplines to achieve optimal and sustainable living for individuals,
families, and communities. Historically, home economics has been in the context
of the home and household, but this has extended in the 21st century to include
the wider living environments as we better understand that the capacities,
choices, and priorities of individuals and families impact at all levels,
ranging from the household to the local and the global community. Home
economists are concerned with promoting and protecting the well-being of
individuals, families, and communities; they facilitate the development of
attributes for lifelong learning for paid, unpaid, and voluntary work. Home
economics professionals are advocates for individuals, families, and
communities.

The content of home economics comes from the synthesis of multiple disciplines.
This interdisciplinary knowledge is essential because the phenomena and
challenges of everyday life are not typically one-dimensional. The content of
home economics courses varies, but might include: food, nutrition, and health;
personal finance; family resource management; textiles and clothing; shelter
and housing; consumerism and consumer science; household management; design and
technology; food science and hospitality; human development and family studies;
education and community services, among others. The capacity to draw from such
disciplinary diversity is a strength of the profession, allowing for the
development of specific interpretations of the field, as relevant to the
context.

Areas of practice

Home economics can be clarified by four dimensions or areas of practice:

  * as an academic discipline to educate new scholars, to conduct research and
    to create new knowledge and ways of thinking for professionals and for
    society
  * as an arena for everyday living in households, families and communities for
    developing human growth potential and human necessities or basic needs to
    be met
  * as a curriculum area that facilitates students to discover and further
    develop their own resources and capabilities to be used in their personal
    life, by directing their professional decisions and actions or preparing
    them for life
  * as a societal arena to influence and develop policy to advocate for
    individuals, families and communities to achieve empowerment and wellbeing,
    to utilize transformative practices, and to facilitate sustainable futures.

To be successful in these four dimensions of practice means that the profession
is constantly evolving, and there will always be new ways of performing the
profession. This is an important characteristic of the profession, linking with
the 21st century requirement for all people to be "expert novices", that is,
good at learning new things, given that society is constantly and rapidly
changing with new and emergent issues and challenges.

Historical skills

In the past, household skills included: herbal medicine, converting hide into
leather, soap making, spinning yarn and thread, weaving cloth and rugs, and
patchwork quilting. More skills were cooking on a wood burning stove, churning
butter, baking bread, and preserving food by drying and by glass-jar canning.^
[3]

Cleaning

Home cleaning can be analyzed into four parts: litter removal, storage of
belongings, dusting, and washing of surfaces. Laundry is a separate subject.
Washing of surfaces is the most dangerous and complicated part because of the
cleaning solutions. For example, hard water deposits are cleaned with acid
solutions and dirt is cleaned with alkaline solutions; they both harm the skin
and both weaken each other. Mixing chlorine bleach and ammonia together forms
toxic gas. Solvents including paint thinner and rubbing alcohol are toxic and
flammable. Disinfectants are poisonous. Even dish water requires rubber gloves.
^[4]

Commercial Cooking

         This section does not cite any references or sources.
[50px-Q] Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable
         sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December
         2010)

Commercial Cooking courses are designed to create an awareness of and to
develop entry-level food preparation skills for the food service industry. The
food service industry is one of the largest employers in Canada. These courses
are designed to give students the skills and practical experiences necessary to
enter the cook trade or food service industry with confidence.

The study of food and cooking methods is essential to the cooking trade;
therefore, lessons for students in cooking theory reinforce practical
exercises. Students are also introduced to standards of professionalism that
include the elements of personal hygiene and the qualities of good workers.

The Commercial Cooking courses are designed to provide students with the
opportunity to challenge the Level I apprenticeship theory within the
professional cook trade. Because a major focus of Level I is the use and
maintenance of industry equipment, it is recommended that students experience
practical components of the course using industry equipment and standards. This
practice will help to ensure a successful student challenge of the
apprenticeship examination. Practical experiences may be taught within a school
setting where commercial kitchen facilities and cafeteria exist. Students may
also acquire practical experience through optional work study modules that may
include community resources.

Finances

The home economist deals with money. A budget is a plan of what to spend on
based on gathered facts. Being frugal includes buying the inexpensive brand.
Credit is lending. Budgeting how much to spend with a credit card is done, as
well as how much to save each paycheck toward a car. Investments are ways to
store extra money. They include bank accounts. Taxpayers sometimes get audited
and show financial records to government officials.^[5]

Impact

The leading national professional organization for home economics in the United
States is the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences. The leading
international organization home economics is the International Federation for
Home Economics (IFHE)

Home Economics is a vital profession currently enjoying renewed attention in
the present era. Our contemporary world is characterised as one of
unprecedented transition from industrial to knowledge-based culture and
globalised economy, with all encompassing effects on society and culture. The
information age is complex, diverse and unpredictable, yet has a strong
commitment to retaining those elements of society that are valued, while
looking ahead to the imperative of improving the world in which we all live
such that sustainable development is possible. Herein lies the potential for
Home Economics and the reason for renewed attention to the field of study, as
this is the key imperative of the profession.

Examples of enacting the transformative powers of home economics professionals
include:

  * Home economics professionals were instrumental to instituting the 1994
    International Year of the Family which centred ‘family’ as a political
    issue and has impacted on family life in many countries of the world
  * Poverty alleviation, gender equality and social justice concerns are a
    priority of home economics professionals, with many projects and
    initiatives conducted in such areas
  * IFHE, or the International Federation for Home Economics, is an
    International Non Governmental Organization (INGO), having consultative
    status with the United Nations (ECOSOC, FAO, UNESCO, UNISEF) and with the
    Council of Europe
  * Home economists partner with other Non-Governmental Organisations to
    improve the lot of families world wide. Specific areas of collaboration/
    cooperation include: Peace Education, gender issues/ women’s empowerment,
    women’s reproductive issues, HIV/AIDS, intervention projects for families
    in distress and other human rights issues
  * Home economists are active in lobbying for issues that will improve the
    well-being of a diversity of families and households
  * Home economists serve as consultants in major businesses and organizations
    dealing with personal home economics, care and consumer services. They are
    also active entrepreneurs in their own rights
  * The current four-year theme on sustainable development for World Home
    Economics Day is a strong stand that impacts on family life positively
  * Home economists are strong advocates for individual and family well-being
    worldwide, evident in for example the development of relevant curricula for
    schools and universities.

See also

  * Homemaker

References

 1. ^ International Federation for Home Economics (IFHE): Position Statement
    in: International Journal of Home Economics, Volume 1, Issue 1, available
    http://www.ifhe.org
 2. ^ Phillips, Robert, Editor-in-Chief et al. 1971. Funk & Wagnall’s New
    Encyclopedia. USA: Funk & Wagnall’s, Inc.
 3. ^ Mack, Norman, Editor. 1981. Back to Basics. Pleasantville, NY: The
    Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.
 4. ^ Bredenberg, Jeff, Editor. 1998. Clean It Fast, Clean It Right. Emmaus,
    PA: Rodale.
 5. ^ Mintzer, Rich & Kathi. 1999. The Everything Money Book. Avon,
    Massachusetts: Adams Media Corporation.

External links

  * Home Economics Archive: Tradition, Research, History (HEARTH) -- E-book
    collection with 1,000 titles on home economics spanning from 1850 to 1950
    at Cornell University's Mann Library.
  * International Federation for Home Economics (IFHE)
  * American Association for Family and Consumer Science (AAFCS)
  * Family Consumer Science Lessons

Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_economics"
Categories: Social sciences | Home economics | Household behavior and family
economics | Domestic life
Hidden categories: Articles to be merged from July 2010 | All articles to be
merged | Articles needing additional references from January 2009 | All
articles needing additional references | Articles needing additional references
from December 2010

Personal tools

  * Log in / create account

Namespaces

  * Article
  * Discussion

Variants 

Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

Actions 

Search

[                    ] Search
 

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia

Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact Wikipedia

Toolbox

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Cite this page

Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

Languages

  * 日本語
  * Português
  * Русский

  * This page was last modified on 25 February 2011 at 03:02.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License
     ; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.
    Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a
    non-profit organization.
  * Contact us

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers

  * Wikimedia Foundation
  * Powered by MediaWiki

