criminals.Visualize a great day.
Try to think of all you believe is good and positive in you.
Tell yourself that you'll be a happy person around in the workplace and a pleasure for everyone at work to have you with them.
Arrive on time or a little early the first day.
Ask in advance when, where, and whom you will meet.
Confirm that somebody will be there to meet you when you arrive.
Obtain and bring the phone number of somebody who can let you in.
Get any special instructions, too.
Be courteous and patient with the receptionist and any security staff you meet on the way in.
They can contact the right people and help point you in the right direction.
Take care of the administrative stuff . Visit Human Resources, security, your manager, and anybody else you need to see to get started.
Ask questions if you need to.
Fill out whatever paperwork is necessary and get it turned in promptly.
Note that applications for insurance , retirement , or other benefits may need to be turned in within a certain amount of time after starting the job for them to be accepted.
If you're not sure about policies, procedures, or deadlines ; ask.
Present identification if it is required.
You may need to place a copy of your passport, social security card, or other state or national ID on file.
Obtain (or apply for) your badge, uniform, and any keys you will need.
Make sure to get a temporary badge if your permanent one will take some time to arrive.
Attend any training or orientation.
Review the employee manual and any other matter you're asked to read.
Request business cards if they will be a part of your job.
Get to know your colleagues . This could be the single most valuable way to ease the transition into a new job.
Learn names as much as possible.
Introduce yourself and ask a few simple questions to start the conversation.
Find out what people's roles are and how long they have been around, for a start.
Ask who to ask.
If you're stuck on something, go to somebody you already met and ask where you should take a question.
Let's do lunch.
Make friends.
As you start to develop a professional rapport with some people, invite them to have coffee or lunch with you someday.
Getting outside the workplace can do wonders for camaraderie.
A bit of personal style.
Learn your work area and, as appropriate, set it up.
If you share space or equipment with others, learn where it goes and how to care for it.
You'll make a good impression by keeping things tidy and in working order.
Arrange your work space for your style.
Do you use your telephone frequently?
Put it within easy arm's reach.
Are you right-handed?
Leave yourself space to write on that side of your chair.
Organize your desk for the way you work.
Adjust your chair to fit comfortably.
Ask for any special accommodations you need.
Clean your workspace , especially if somebody else occupied it previously.
Stay a little late the first day, if you need to.
People eat , sneeze , and cough at their desks, and you're better off not starting a new job by calling in sick the second week.
Remove the clutter , if any was left behind.
Wipe down your desk with damp paper towels.
Pre-moistened wipes or a mild spray cleaner will do a better job.
Don't forget the mouse , mousepad , keyboard , the armrests of your chair, the telephone and doorknobs , since all these things get handled frequently.
Collect or request any supplies or equipment you will need to do your job.
Arrange and organize your workspace as you go, too.
You may not know what to title file folders or binders until you get started doing your job, for instance.
Get your computer , accounts, and passwords set up.
The IT or IS department will usually help.
Listen to their instructions and advice.
Don't forget to ask for assistance installing a printer, if you need to.
Learn enough about your voice mail system to initiate your mailbox, record an outgoing message, and set a password.
Sometimes there are various internal and external messages to set up.
Learn your new job . Depending on your job and your previous experience, it could take anywhere from weeks to years to master.
Ask plenty of questions at first.
Everybody will understand that you are starting in a new place, and it will show that you're actively learning.
Establish goals and define your objectives.
Do this jointly with your supervisor.
You may see what needs doing, or he/she may tell you what needs to be done, or (most likely) a combination may occur.
Your objectives may evolve as you settle in, but starting right away will give you direction when you most need it.
Listen carefully to instructions and advice that people offer.
Write things down.
Use a notebook , calendar or planner to help keep track of all the new information that is coming your way.
When somebody tells you where to go or who to see, make a note of it.
It will help you remember what you need to do, and it will demonstrate that you are paying attention.
Repeat back instructions that you receive, in your own words.
It's a good way to make sure that you understand things completely, and it will help you remember.
You can begin, "Let me make sure I understand correctly here.
You'd like me to..."
Learn the building or other space where you will be working.
Where is the printer ? The restroom ? The emergency exit?
The cafeteria ? If there's a map , take a good look at it.
Talk to your boss . Even if it's not your favorite activity, communicating regularly with your boss is a good way to know if you're on the right track.
Don't forget that you can ask questions , give a status report (verbally or in writing), and ask for feedback and recommendations.