concern).Decide what it is about being a hipster that so appeals to you.
It's hard to stay passionate about a personal style that you're adopting if you don't have a clear focus on the reasons for why you've taken to it.
For many people, being hipster is about being alert to the way in which consumer culture can easily subsume us and lead us, rather than us standing back and critically assessing it.
The term "hipster" actually comes from as early as the 1930s (the Beatniks) [3] or the 1940s, when the term "hip" from the jazz age became synonymous with middle class white teens wanting to emulate the lifestyle followed by black jazz musicians.
[4] With the rise of the hippies whose focus was more on community than individuals, hipsters faded for a time, to be rejuvenated in the 1990s and continuing.
[5] On rebirth of the hipster culture, American youth sought to bring to the fore a love of independent music and art, as well as finding old trends worthy of revival, such as their grandparent's clothing taste and a can of Pabst beer.
[6] So, now that you've got a little bit of the background in mind, consider some other reasons:
You're keen to openly display your love of anything indie, independent art, culturally-exposing literature, existentialist or nihilist philosophy, and superior cultural awareness (your finger is on the pulse of what's rotten at the heart of everything).
You like the fashion style of hipsters.
See below for what's hip in clothes, hair, shoes, and accessories.
It's a style that defines all that you feel matters right now.
Or, you're not actually that sure what it is you want for a style and you're confused, flipping from idea to idea and back again.
Don't worry, hipsterism will allow you to fit right in, confusion and all.
The idea of sitting in a cafe sipping mocha lattes while surfing on your Mac or iPad for hours each day is really, really appealing to you.
Being hipster provides the ideal excuse.
You're already quirky and you just want to confirm your quirkiness with others of your own kind.
Be in the right age group.
Hipsters tend to be in their teens through to their 30s, [7] today's "extended adolescent" era consisting of existential angst, searching for purpose and inner worth, and asking the meaning of everything.
Of course, this doesn't mean you can't be a hipster at an older age but the fact that as you age you get less bothered and upset about the way the world works, or doesn't work, probably means you're a) not so keen to be labeled anything b) not in need of belonging to any sub-culture, and c) less angry than you used to be.
It's quite possible you're also very discreetly steering the rudder of your own teens going through "issues" and you're less than keen to adopt more of the same for yourself.
Still if you want to be hipster at 70, go for it, but do be aware that it's probably time baby boomers left adolescence by now.
[8]
Be where the hipsters roam.
Hipsters tend to congregate in very urban settings and they're connected globally thanks to the internet.
In the USA, you'll tend to find hipsters in major cosmopolitan centers where "anything goes".
Think New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Portland, OR, Seattle, and especially the Brooklyn, N.Y. suburb of Williamsburg (known as the unofficial hipster capital of the world).
[9] [10] Places like Glasslands and Pianos will be right up your alley.
Los Angeles is also acceptable but be careful not to get sucked into the California culture.
For less urban USA, try to find any moderately large college town; and in some states, a college town might be the only liberal part of the state such as Austin, TX or Lawrence, KS.
In the UK, London is your spot, in Canada, try Montreal [11] , and in Australia, try Melbourne.
[12] Be where there are independent art galleries, movie houses, bands, and people.
Be educated.
Aim to go to college, as hipsters tend to be well educated in such areas as liberal arts , graphic art, or math and science.
[13] Do a lot of reading, even if it means sitting in the local bookstore using their space and not actually purchasing the books you're siphoning up knowledge from.
Seek to go to higher level education if you're in your element at college.
Many hipsters base their career choices around music, art, or fashion.
[14] While these areas of work aren't essential choices, they are probably a natural outlet for a hipster's creativity.
Education is what helps a hipster to be dismissive about the hue and cry of others; they know it's just history repeating itself, or it's all much ado about nothing.
Be an early adopter.
Hipsters tend to sense what's worthwhile before the trend or item becomes more popular.
Many bands become famous only after hipsters first flock to their unknown performances.
Many clothing trends were started by hipsters, only to be hijacked later by mainstream fashion houses.
Many technical gadgets are taken up by hipsters first, only to become mainstream goodies later.
Of course, the irony of being an early adopter hipster is that once the trend or item becomes mainstream, it's time to move on from it to something else obscure and unrecognized.
That's the trouble with being so independent of spirit; you trailblaze but you also have to keep moving on.
If you're really good at something like math, physics , medicine, psychology, political analysis, eco-awareness, etc., you might find yourself making amazing discoveries that are light years ahead of everyone else's thinking.
You know deep down that you've cottoned onto something that really matters and that it makes sense but others are not convinced because it's the "great unknown".
Rest easy and be determined in your knowledge that some day, others will come round to your discovery.
Make what's old new again.
A mixture of frugality , respect for some of the past, and a desire to demonstrate that new things don't define who you are all blend together to create this step.
Naturally, you'll need to wrestle with the inconsistency of this step with the fact that loving shiny new Apple products and brand new clothes from certain labels is also a side of a true hipster, but since we're all contradictory deep down, the sooner we grasp these contradictions and accept them, the more whole a person we'll be.
Commonly known old things associated with hipsters include Parliament cigarettes (and a devil-may-care attitude about smoking laws), Pabst beer, grandparent's clothing (or thrift store finds), bicycles with fixed gears (often ridden to the night clubs), analog cameras, and recycling and reusing almost anything (ingenuity, common sense, and fun comes into this).
Hipsters are into "niche consumerism".
If your purchase helps local retailers, the environment, the mom and pop retailer, and the craft wenches down the road, then it's hipster.
In terms of rejecting materialism, you have serious competition these days.
Tree-huggers, peak oilers, urban survivalists, frugalistas, and fans of Mayan predictions forare right up there with you even though you may or may not have anything to do with such devotees.
Learn about them, perhaps mostly just to distinguish yourself from them, and don't be surprised when you work out that perhaps even your entire generation has adopted the anti-materialism message out of sheer necessity from the lack of jobs, money, and financial support that was once around, with Generation Y's "secular spiritualists", "deferred dreamers", and the "dreamful dead" now outnumbering the "traditional materialists".
[15]
Get your reading matter and viewing sorted.
Your reading sources are clearly important because what you read connects you with other hipsters, informs you about cultural issues, and keeps you knowledgeable.
There's a lot to be read out there, so sort the wheat from the chaff and get into the things that matter most.
Things to read include:
Hipster magazines, such as Vice , Another Magazine , and Wallpaper.
[16] Foreign magazines are good too.
Great books and poetry by people like Jack Kerouac, Alan Ginsburg, and Norman Mailer.
Any other books you think are great.
Any books, period; reading books sets hipsters apart from a lot of people.
Visit the political science, anthropology, and sociology sections of the bookstores and local library frequently.
Blogs by other hipsters.
You might also be inspired enough to write your own blog frequently.
Watch independent and foreign films , as well as attending independent theater productions, such as shows by Ann Liv Young.
Watch Wes Anderson movies.
Hone your humor.
A hipster is known for their strong sense of irony and sarcasm.
When asked a question, refuse to answer directly; instead, obfuscate, ask a question in return, or just be plain sarcastic.
Be sure to layer on the smirk to indicate your lack of seriousness, because it's possible for the other person to mistake your sarcasm for sincerity.
For example: When in a theater watching a movie, and the person next to you turns to say, "Oh, my God, that was so cool!
Did you see that?", in a dry tone, reply something along the lines of, "No, I paid eight dollars to stare at the ceiling."
Watch British comedies for examples of good uses of sarcasm you can borrow.
Have a sense of humorous perspective and don't take yourself too seriously.
Hipsters are often parodied, so knowing how to laugh at derision will help a lot.
Listen to newly emerging, independent music.
Independent music is a big part of what being a hipster's all about.
Turn to the endless and ever-renewing list of independent artists in the music scene, especially in the areas of nu-rave, minimalist techno , independent rap, nerdcore, Elephant 6, garage rock and punk rock.
[17] </ref> Hipster artists of note include Animal Collective, Grizzly Bear, Belle & Sebastian, Electric President, Stray Kites, Jens Lekman, Neutral Milk Hotel, M83, Neon Indian, Neon Neon, Margot & The Nuclear So and Sos, and King Khan and the Shrines.
Music blogs like Gorilla vs. Bear, and Stereogum may help you with choosing suitable bands to listen to.
Meeting people who are already into these bands will help you as well.
Perhaps the most popular hipster music website is pitchforkmedia.com.
If they give an album a good rating, it must be quite hip.
One good way to decipher whether or not an artist is hipster, is a) for you to like them, and b) for your non-hipster friends to have never heard of them.
Get the fashion worked out.
Fashion is just about as important as your music taste is. While vintage store shopping still remains a staple for a number of hipsters, this is not something to assume as a given and nor does it need to be a big part, or even a part, of the hipster wardrobe.
There are several labels that cater for the hipster fashion scene with the well-known labels for hipsters including American Apparel, H&M, ASOS, CobraSnake, and Urban Outfitters.
Where possible, avoid buying labeled gear from the stores run by the label itself (so very not niche consumerism).
Instead, look for independent retailers because supporting obscure and little known retailers is "totally deck".
For example, buy from independent retailers like aBasicAttire.bigcartel.com or the local mixed fashion store near you.
The classic " skinny jeans " make the hipster look, both for males and females and hipster men tend to be as skinny as the women.
[] However, note that guy hipsters actually probably wear skinny jeans more than the girls (girls prefer leggings/jeggings/treggings).
Basically, the tighter, the better.
Alternatively, for women, high-wasted pants (aka: "mom jeans") may also be worn.
Hipsters love ironic eyewear such as shuttershades, oversized plastic framed glasses, Buddy Holly glasses, nerd glasses, and for the ones who can afford it, authentic Ray Ban Wayfarers of all the colors of the rainbow.
Some of the hipsters wear eyeglasses even though they have/20 vision!
For tops, the following are a good pick: ironic tees, plaid shirts, cowboy shirts, and anything in gingham, plaid, checkers, paisley , vintage florals all work for tops.
Many hipsters sport tops with appliques, images of animals or forests, other images, characters from children's TV, and ironic sayings or even book covers.
Fitted hoodies are perfect.
For shoes, a range of footwear is suitable, including: cowboy boots, Converse , and a range of flats.
Converse are no longer universal.
They look great and you can wear them pretty much anywhere, but so is everyone else Doc Martens or any other kind of vintage shoes are better.
If it's trainers you're after, see Classic Reeboks or Vans.
For girls, heels aren't completely popular but feel free to wear them.
Cute sandals, Keds, boots, and granny boots are not only more practical but also show how "little" effort you've put in even if it has taken you ages to find the "perfect" pair.
For accessories, there is a wide choice, including: large flower headbands, neon nail polish , pins, bright belts, bird necklaces, patterned and colorful leggings, etc. Don't forget your plugs, piercings, and random scars supposedly acquired through woodwork and other carpenter-like endeavors.
Appropriately ironic accessories are mandatory, such as things kids would take to school, like an animal image on a lunchbox.
Essentials include a courier bag (not a backpack), preferably something from Freitag, that can fit your MacBook, iPhone, and vinyl LPs ( never CDs) of your current favorite band.
Layering or wearing things that don't match together is very hipster.
It's that "I can't be bothered" look that actually takes some planning until you get into the habit.
Dresses are good for women, preferably floral or lace, and vintage.
Granny's closet is definitely a good source; you should know how to sew and restyle vintage clothing to fit though.
Remember that a hipster's outfit never needs adjustment should you decide to go to the beach keep all of your urban accompaniments for the sand and surf to ironically stick out of your element.
Sort out your grooming . There are a lot of impolite comments about hipsters not taking showers.
The thing is, hipsters know the difference between essential hygiene and hitting a salon just to be turned into a carbon-copy; they're also well aware of how to pull off the greasy or just-out-of-bed look with unaware effort.
While hipsters do shower regularly and clean their teeth, they're just less interested in forking out money for hairstyling, spa sessions, pedicures/manicures, and large make-up kits because these are signs of conforming to cultural ideals of beauty.
Arguably, hipsters aren't so interested in "making the most of their assets" because they see their entire self as an asset; from a self-esteem point of view, this is actually a rather healthy outlook.
Messy hair-dos are just fine.
The "bed look", long unkempt hair, and hair that resists any attempts to stay flat without chemicals are acceptable looks.
Blurring gender lines with haircuts and styles is part of the hipster culture.
Greasy hair is considered okay by some in the hipster culture.
That doesn't mean you need to concur and a squeaky clean but uncombed do might be more your thing.
Some hipsters like to dye their hair, in an obvious way.
Get the lingo and the attitude . While there will be many variations and part of the reality of hipster culture is that things change constantly, there are some things that it's useful to know:
Remember to use perhaps the most important hipster line: "I liked them before they were cool."
Another good line given the recent spate of disasters is to say something like: "I donated to Haiti... before the disaster."
Namedrop often.
Talk about all the obscure bands you like that nobody you know has heard of.
When your friends talk about a band you're unfamiliar with, just say you've heard of them but not actually heard them.
Look them up the next time you have a chance to.
It'll give you more cred.
Insult a lot of bands.
If you love everything you'll seem like a fanatic.
Make sure to give off a vibe that you're too cool and elite for a lot of bands.
If you would like to seem more educated and elite there is the key phrase " I liked their first EP, but pretty much after that I never got into them."
Use made-up words as often as possible.
Or use real words that no one really knows the meaning of unless they look the words up examples: pulchritudinous, cordiform, and petrichor.
Start growing your own food and turn vegetarian.
Use compost if possible.
If you have absolutely no space to do this (not even a balcony or a window sill), go to a natural foods market instead.
Eating meat isn't exactly popular with the hipster culture, and many hipsters tend to be vegetarian or vegan.
If you do eat meat, you must assert that choice as a cynical transcendence of vegetarians' futile attempts to save the world your sense of irony has already deemed that movement obsolete.
Fruit, coffee , oriental food, etc., are all hip foods.
You can't really go wrong with lunch from Whole Foods.
Technically, hipsters are all a bunch of foodies and love making gourmet meals.
If you can't cook, get some good cookbooks today.
Start dancing . If you want to spot a hipster, just turn around the next time you're at a show and see them standing in the back discussing Stella or PBR in a can.
Sometimes, if the music and setting is right, you will witness hipsters engaging in dance movements.
Hipster dancing, if done right, does not use so much of the hips as it does the upper body and arms.
Lots of swinging your head back and forth but only do this if you're not humiliated easily (and as a hipster, you really shouldn't care).
Although you'll rarely see hipsters dancing at shows, they tend to enjoy separate dance parties where they can dance to an array of more upbeat hipster dance music.
Date other hipsters.
The reason behind doing the "hookup" with other hipsters is that you're much more likely to connect and see eye-to-eye on a range of issues.
The all-American muscle guy or sorority-style tanned blond are not likely to be your type, so a fellow hipster is the answer.
[19] Look within your circle for suitable dates, and interracial dating is typical within the hipster sub-culture.
[20]
Some hipsters may experience a problem with monogamy as that can feel like a form of being tied down.
Then again, if you think that's unique to hipsters, you've got a lot to learn about dating and commitment...
If you break up with a hipster, text them it's over or better still, have someone else pass the message on (try an internet break-up service).
Nothing too emotional, OTT, or pain-acknowledging is ideal.
Be aware that hipsterism is frequently parodied or derided because hipsters bug some people.
You're going to need to get used to disdainful attitudes and to work out the ways in which you're most comfortable responding.
There will often be an insistence that your sub-culture is "less than" whatever it is the hater "believes" in.
Given the tendency for hipsters to follow progressive politics, it's likely you'll encounter occasional conservative disdain, so it's probably a good idea to brush up on your responses to any standard ridicule.
As for people who poke fun at your fashion sense, remind the so-called trendy mass that their worn and torn jeans fashion was originated by hipsters who found the jeans in thrift stores and wore them years before they turned into mainstream fashion.
[21] (The "we did it first" is a familiar catch-cry of the hipster whose original ideas end up being incorporated into mainstream profit-making ventures.)
Realize that a lot of people who attack have deep insecurities about their own place in society and have very mixed ideas of what culture is, or how they reconcile the variant elements of culture with their own lifestyle and preferences.
A little compassion for the most aggressive of the lost souls can go a long way, as you realize they're not really attacking you personally but they're expressing their utter confusion and irresponsible lack of deep thinking through of all the issues.
It doesn't mean you have to respect or like these people but reaching your own inner peace and understanding of where they're coming from can ease things for you.
If the hater is harping on about your age, there is a big clue about what's really going on; they're looking at you and your friends as an amorphous group of "people in their teens/s" and grumbling about their own misspent youth and/or what they're missing out on now!
Really, it's an age-old gripe when seen in this light.
Geeks have an odd relationship with hipsters.
While some are disdainful, other geeks actually realize that geeks often sit on the edge of hipster and occasionally meld with hipsters.
[] Mixing the obsessiveness of geek with the dismissiveness of hipster results in someone who is determined to get to the bottom of why everything sucks.
Instead of feeling defensive, spend some time reading the criticisms of the hipster counterculture.
Some of the criticisms are valid, especially when the hipster is sucked into all-night partying in drug-infused hazes with heavily ritualized sequences that each person must participate in, and Douglas Haddow is concerned that hipsters have fallen prey to "consuming cool" rather than creating cool.
[] A wise hipster stays abreast of the criticisms of hipsterism to know what's being said and to find the irony implicit in any criticisms.
Read How to think of quick witted comebacks and How to make hilarious comebacks for more ideas.
Don't define yourself to others ( denial ).
One of the key elements of being hipster has been to avoid the label and to not go around proclaiming your allegiance.
To do so would be to start allying with those who like neatly tied-up boxes denoting who is what, when, and where.
The moment you define yourself too clearly is the moment you begin to stagnate and risk being captured by the status quo.
So, many a hipster will deny their "hipster-ness" at each possible turn.
However, in a pre-emptive strike to ward off the mockers, some hipsters have lately taken to extending their sense of irony to include even themselves by acknowledging and mocking their own hipsterdom (for example, wearing a tee that says "I hate hipsters"); that way, by mocking themselves first, nobody can do it effectively later.
Try social forums.
Female hipsters love to use Blogspot, Tumblr or Wordpress taking photos with their Holga cameras of cross-processed and "dreamy-like" pictures of themselves in a field, by the ocean, in forests, in their hipster rooms.
Usually it is to express their desire for beautiful and soft vintage things that is reflected in their photography.
A lot of them have pictures of their feet for some odd reason.
If you know of a hipster girl that knows the terms "re-blog" or "follow me on blogspot" then that's definitely one of the indicators of a female hipster.