changed.It's time to move on : As a refugee, many questions like: why me? Why it happened to my family?
May come across your mind.
Try not to be occupied by this big, useless question mark.
Being a refugee is not the end of the world you know, life's great opportunities always exist and are waiting for you to benefit from them.
Just put everything behind your back and start moving on with your new life.
Refresh Your Mind :Give yourself some time to think.
After the difficult circumstances that you suffered from in Iraq, you might feel depressed.
Your situation could worsen if you don't take a short time for relaxation.
It is crucial you spend some time out in one of the beautiful places in Syria.
You don't need to go to a remote place like Al-Latakia, but you can go to a public garden and spend one to two hours there.
That will refresh your mind ,make your body feel renewed and help you think properly on what to do in this period.
Build new relationships : After moving to your new house in your host country it is a great opportunity to meet your new neighbors.
Having a good relationship with people around you is important because you'll definitely need advice especially when you see your host country for the first time; also it allows you to find new friends you can trust.
It may not be easy at first, but with a little smile and a kind greeting, you'll gradually win people's respect.
Try to find a proper job : Even though it is difficult for a refugee, it is vital to find a job.
You might not have that many of opportunities, so you should not be fussy.
You might also have a financial resource from Iraq.
Think further because this resource will not last forever.
Besides, work gives the experience needed in everyday life.
Don't believe everything you hear : There will always be rumors about the refugees that they will be kicked out of Syria.
Do not let such things get you down.
Instead, ignore those lies and continue your life.
Believing rumors leads to severe depression that makes you do nothing but sleep!!!!I remember that every summer there are people who claim "That's It, this is the last summer ever for you Iraqi refugees!?".
It's been four years of living here in Syria and nothing of that happened.
For those who believed, some left their jobs and even left Syria.
However, on the other side, there are some people who have been living in peace and harmony.
Learn the dialect : Remember that you have to learn the dialect very well, but you don't have to use it.
In certain occasions you will need to use it.
When you go shopping or in a taxi for e.g., as an Iraqi taking a taxi in Syria, the taxi drivers always bluff and increase the sum of money.
Sometimes, to increase the tariff, they even take you on a tour around the city until they get you to the place where you want to go and you don't even recognize it!
The best way to avoid bluffing is not to talk to the taxi driver and just try to use the Syrian words you already know so that they don't recognize you're a foreigner.
Another reason why it's important to learn exactly the same dialect is to find a suitable job, especially in secretary jobs, you need to speak to customers Syrian not Iraqi.
Keep yourself active : Involve yourself with out-door activities.
You can't live your life mourning the fact that you're a refugee.
Being a refugee doesn't prevent you from living your life just like a citizen does.
Start over and try to forget the unpleasant memories by having some out-door activities and get a life.
Try to find some good out-going friends.
Go to places where you can show Syrians how we dance dabka on Majid al-Muhandis or Kadhim songs.
Embrace your differences and enjoy them.
Play the sport that you like; football, basket ball, swimming or any sport you might be interested in.
If not interested in sports then try to join a club or a course from which you can learn a lot of new things and develop your skills.
If not interested in clubs and taking courses then go out on trips every now and then.
Go hiking with the family or any person you feel is somehow related to you.
Try to bond that relationship with them and engage in those activities together, going to the sea for example or simply gardens and be in touch with nature.
If not interested in out-door activities, you can still have in-door activities.
Try in-door sports like yoga and aerobics.
Make yourself feel at home : Don't accept living in a messy house just because you're a refugee.
Because day by day, you'll feel like you've changed to worse.
You won't feel comfortable no matter what you do to be happy if your house means mere a shelter to you.
Don't say it's just a rented house.
Make it your home and make it more comfortable, clean and healthy.
Invite some friends to cook dinner or make a little party.
You can get little plants that grow inside the house or in the balcony.
Because Iraqis are used to live in houses with big gardens, having some plants in the house will make you feel more balanced from the inside.
If not interested in in-door activities then think about what we mentioned while taking a shower.
You will be inspired with new ideas that you might want to try out.
If not interested in the ideas that come to your mind, make your bed comfortable, wear pajamas and try to have some sleep.
You're just tired man! Relax, everything will go just fine..
Educate yourself : Although you may suffer from poor education in Syria because of the different subjects in the Syrian schools and the high fees of the colleges, but that doesn't mean to lose the hope or the ambition.
The education is not only through schools or colleges.
It includes any book you read, any documentary you watch or any work you perform.
Try to seize any opportunity that comes in your way until you have the chance to be a student in one of the educational institution.
Make your people proud : You should be careful and responsible.
Remember that names don't define us, saying i'm Iraqi don't reflect who you really are.
names don't give us meaning, but it's us who give meanings to names.
It's our responsibilities as Iraqis as well as refugees to give that word "Iraqi" a great meaning by being great ourselves and reflect honorable reputation of our own country.
Volunteer Work : If you have enough free time, try to do some volunteer work.
You can do that by joining organizations like the Red Crescent, Red Cross, UNV, etc. This experience will enable you to help other people and gain good experience on your CV.
In addition to that, people will like you and you will have more friends.
Above all that, there is no better feeling than helping people and drawing smiles on their faces.
Writing Articles : If your host country is a well developed country that knows a little about Iraqi refugees, and you were a good writer, writing articles about Iraqi refugees and Iraq will be a great project.
By this, you'll probably make money by writing for magazines or websites.
Also, it will develop your writing skills.
So why not trying it!
Speak out for your people : As the time passes, you may forget that you are Iraqi.
You may be unable to recall the Iraqi accent, the delicious and unique kinds of food, and the hospitality of our people.
Try to follow your home news, listen to patriotic songs, make friends with the Iraqi youths and always remember that Iraq, by which I mean the whole Iraqis, didn't do anything wrong and what happened was its destiny.
Be frugal :It is essential you be aware of the way you spend your money.
Now You are paying for rent, food, bills.etc, and you haven't got a job yet.
So try to be frugal ,and spend your money wisely just on the essential needs of life.
There are many ways by which you can cut down the amount of money you spend.
For instance, try to live in a neighborhood where you can find cheap rent and inexpensive markets.
Besides, you can use public transportation, like the SERVICE or the GREEN BUS instead of taking taxis.
In addition, if you are a smoker, this is the best time for you to give up smoking.
Eat to remember : It's certain that you are going to miss the good old Iraqi food.
You need to eat some of it even if you are out of your country.
You are lucky to be in Syria because there are some places in Syria that became almost full of Iraqi people, shops and restaurants.
Places such as Jaramanah, Qudsaya, and Sayda Zianab.
So if you want to eat the grilled, greasy, hot and delicious meat (Gass) in the big and freshly-baked Samoon bread, you can do that in Jaramanah.
Kassim abo al Gass, is one of the famous Iraqi restaurants that is recommended for its great Gass, and you must have known him back in Al-Adhamia in Baghdad.
You can go to Jaramanah and ask anyone about it and they will tell you where to go.
Kobbat Hayawi is another famous Iraqi restaurant, famous with its Kobbah balls, made of rice and stuffed with special mix of meat, pepper and a special spices.
You can find that in Qudsya.
You must have eaten hundreds of Maskof in your life, especially in journeys and family trips.
And I know that here there are no special trips like the ones you used to do back in our beloved country.
However, you must miss the big, flame-grilled and lovely fish (Maskov) as much as you miss Iraqi trips.
So don't worry, your nostalgia has ended, you can go to Sayda Zainab and finally order that great meal.