ground.Attend mass ! In the Catholic faith, Mass is very important.
You may attend on Saturday evening or Sunday night (main days to go).
However, many churches also have services during the week.
When you go to Mass, make sure you know all the responses.
For example, in the start of the service the priest will say "The Lord be with you!".
You must reply "And also with you,".
Also, make sure you sing or try to sing when you are opening your hymnals!
Not trying to sing just looks bad.
Make sure you dress appropriately for Mass as well.
No jeans or sneakers.
Girls should wear dress pants, a skirt, or a nice dress.
Their skirts/dresses should be no shorter than "above the knee" length.
Boys should wear dress pants and a nice collared shirt.
Learn how to receive communion.
There is communion at every mass, not just once in a while.
Before you go to receive communion you must realize and believe that it is the full body, blood, soul,and divinity of Jesus Christ.
You also must be in a state of grace, which means you are free from mortal sin.
Go up when it it your pew's turn.
Put your hands out left over right, like you are about to scoop up some water from your sink, or stick out your tongue, or you may kneel and stick out your tongue.
The priest will put a little wafer in your hand or on your tongue.
Bow your head and say "Amen".
Next to the priest there should be another person giving out the blood of Christ.
You may go take a sip if you wish, but it is optional.
Go back to your pew quietly and pray.
Some Catholics thank God for being in their presence, but you can pray for certain people or other such intentions.
The point of the time after Communion is to reflect on the presence of God within each of us.
Say whatever prayer you want; it is your own personal prayer time.
On a side note, it is important to remember that it is gravely wrong to receive Holy Communion with a mortal sin (grave offence against the law of God) on your soul.
You must go to Confession if you are aware of having committed a mortal sin.
Go to Confession regularly.
The sacrament of Confession is just as important as the the sacrament of Holy Communion.
Familiarize yourself with its basic outline, and what you are expected to do and say during Confession.
There are many excellent online resources for help with examining your conscience, making an Act of Contrition, etc..
Most churches offer Confession Saturday afternoons, or any time upon request.
Develop a devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Mary is without a doubt the greatest saint to whom we can have recourse.
When she said yes to God's wish to make her the mother of His son, she said yes to Jesus, making her the very first Christian.
She embodies the virtues of love, compassion, mercy, and countless others.
She is truly our heavenly mother.
No one in heaven knows God as intimately as she does, and you would greatly benefit from praying to her on a daily basis.
Pray daily.
Catholics are serious about prayer, so make sure you bow your head a few times a day and have a conversation with Jesus.
Volunteer and be a good person.
You should ask your local church what you can do to help out.
There should be much to do, even if it is something small.
Do it!
Join a youth group.
If your parish has one, join!
It is a great way to grow in your faith and meet other Catholic teens.
Some youth groups offer monthly volunteering opportunities, or service projects.
Others offer retreats for teens that will hopefully build up your relation with God.
Youth group can help you to become involved with your church.
Consider taking part in March for Life.
The March for Life is an annual meeting and march in Washington, D.C. where tens of thousands of pro-lifers protest against abortion.
Beginning with a powerful youth rally and mass at the Verizon Center and concluding with the protest march to the Supreme Court, the March for Life can be a great experience.
Consider encouraging your church's youth group to take part!
Organize drives and fundraisers for your church's single expecting mothers.
Raising a child alone can be difficult, and so, helping single mothers with the expenses can help them to realize that they are not alone.