etc.Offer your congratulations.
When your friend first announces her or his engagement, she or he is likely to be very excited.
It's a big moment in anyone's life, and it is normally important to the newly-betrothed that their friends and family share in their joy.
When your friend first tells you her or his plans, be happy for her or him and offer your congratulations.
Hugs, kisses, tears and laughter are all appropriate.
Hopefully this will come naturally!
Send a card.
If you can't be with your friend in person, send her or him a card to let your friend know you are thinking of her or him.
Address it to both your friend and her or his partner, and write a short personal message inside.
Obtain an engagement present.
You might like to give your friend a present to help celebrate her or his engagement.
Champagne is sometimes a good option.
Alternatively you could club together with some friends to treat the couple to an experience they can share together, like a weekend at a fancy hotel, but be sure to respect any religious beliefs that your friend may have about proper boundaries before the marriage.
Get to know your friend's partner.
Now that your friend has decided to marry, it will be more important than ever that her or his friends and her or his partner get to know each other.
If you haven't already done so, make the effort to get to know your friend's new spouse-to-be.
Treat them as a unit by inviting them to things together.
If for some reason you really can't stand the new partner, then you need to put in a bit of extra work.
Try organizing group events to invite them to; that way you can get to know the partner without having to speak to him or her all the time.
Remember that meeting the friends can be a nerve-wracking experience, so the partner could be acting out of character due to nerves.
Give it time.
You friend obviously sees something in this person, so he or she can't be all bad!
Accept the wedding invitation.
At some point during the engagement you will (hopefully) receive an official invitation to the wedding.
The wedding day is traditionally hosted by the parents of the bride, and so the invitation will often be sent on their behalf.
A traditional wedding invitation will often read something like: "Mr. and Mrs. Edward Evenett request the pleasure of the company of Claire Randall at the wedding of Alice and Sam at St. Paul's Church..." and so on.
They will often request an RSVP by a certain date.
The invitation may instruct you on how to do this, but if not you should reply by writing a short letter to the address on the invitation.
Help organize the stag and hen nights or bachelor/bachelorette parties.
If you are best man or maid of honor, it is traditionally your responsibility to organize the "last night of freedom" before marriage.
Apart from the logistics, you also have the responsibility of looking after the bride or groom on the big night.
You need to walk a fine line between making sure they have a party they will never forget, and stitching them up completely.
You should bear in mind though that their partner will hold you responsible for their loved one's safety and well being, and will not appreciate any lasting damage or permanent tattoos.