Opening!Be serious about learning the subject.
If you are in high school or earlier, take all the science classes you can get.
It is likely that your high school class will approach physics largely from a Newtonian perspective.
If you are at or approaching a university level, enroll in university classes in your chosen field.
Explore physics on your own, too, no matter what your age.
There are many popular science books on the subject exploring topics in modern and classical physics in varying detail.
Read up on the history of physics and other science.
Understand how new discoveries come about and how they often challenge societal and even scholarly assumptions about the workings of the universe.
Explore and study related subjects, too.
Physics is the science of phenomena in the physical world.
Much of theoretical physics today explores phenomena at the atomic and sub-atomic level and at an astronomical scale, so a grasp of astronomy and chemistry will mean good background
Study as much mathematics as you can.
While math isn't physics, it is the language used to describe and characterize the physical phenomena with which physics is concerned.
Question folk knowledge and even results from other physicists.
Amateur physicists sometimes believe they have solved the entire world, but they believe this only because they understand totally nothing about the real way problems are solved in physics.
It's fine to have a theory, but be prepared to modify it or discard it entirely based on experimental results or observations of the physical universe.
Use the Internet as a resource, but be careful of what you find there.
Always ask who's making a claim and how they arrived at their results.
For experimental results, examine the methods carefully for possible errors or biases.
For theoretical results, check whether they tend to match the experimental results and look for exceptions to the rule.
Try alternative approaches, as many as you can.
You will discover, time and again, that really what physicists before you did indeed was the smartest thing possible.
Amazing.
Do the exercises.
Good texts come with exercises.
Do them and you will find out that you can understand everything.
Try to reach the stage that you discover the numerous misprints, tiny mistakes as well as more important errors, and imagine how you would write those texts in a smarter way.
If you get good at spotting errors or writing texts, consider writing for a collaborative online textbook project.
There are several out there, and writing for them can help both the readers and yourself to be better physicists and scientists.
Languages
Primary Mathematics
Classical Mechanics
Optics
Statistical Mechanics and Thermodynamics
Electronics
Electromagnetism
Quantum Mechanics (broad subject with several sub-disciplines)
Quantum Topology
Atoms and Molecules
Solid State Physics
Nuclear Physics
Plasma Physics
Advanced Mathematics
Special Relativity
Advanced Quantum Mechanics
Phenomenology
General Relativity
Quantum Field Theory
Superstring Theory