movies.Realize that there are qualities every model needs to have , depending on the type of model one wishes to become.
Generally, any feature indicative of good health is a must - clear skin, a full head of hair, and overall symmetry.
Other qualities such as height and weight depend on what you're modeling.
Consider working with a fitness trainer, especially someone who has a good reputation and experience with models.
Tell them your modeling goals and how you aspire to look.
Decide what kind of model you'd like to be.
Technically, anybody can be a model.
However, do remember that if you don't meet certain requirements, the work available to you will be incredibly limited, and you may have to compensate in other departments (reliability, technique, etc).
A Plus Size Model.
If your body is full and curvaceous, you may be able to be a plus size model.
Bruna Tenorio
A CatWalk Model.
If you're tall (at the very least'7 for editorial & 5'8 for catwalk) and very skinny with a small breast size, you can be a catwalk model.
An Underwear Model.
If you have large breasts but not very wide hips, you can be an underwear model.
Other Types of Modeling.
If you don't fit any of the face or body descriptions, perhaps you can be a foot, hair or hand model
Consider your "look".
There is more of a curvy California look, a svelte New York look, a waif-like European look, girl next door, swim suit or lingerie (usually requires the bust to fill out the suits and a very thin waist)...
Know what you're equipped with, but also work to pull off other looks.
Get some photos done.
These don't have to be professional but they should be created for the purpose of showing your ability as a model.
Although agencies say they are happy with snapshots, that doesn't mean they want to see an out of focus shot of you out partying with your friends with a little note attached saying that you're the one on the right!
As a bare minimum, you will need one head shot and one body shot.
Get your favorites printed into 8x10s.
Save these in case you are asked to leave a photograph anywhere before you have professional ones done.
Don't force these on people or try to hand them out.
You'll be better off waiting for the professional shots instead of taking risks with an amateur photo.
Consider getting the photos professionally done.
Professional photography, even if it is expensive, will give you a better idea of what kind of look you project.
You will eventually need these photographs to snag an interview, so think of it as a worthwhile investment!
Look up the number of a reputable modeling agency.
You can find these in your area chance for this photo.
They'll use this to compare to your head shot.
They will ask you to walk and take your measurements, so be prepared for all of that as well.
Learn to accept rejection or criticism politely (see Warnings below).
Thank the people for their time.
Be professional.
Be polite and always turn up on time to any appointment or shoot.
If you're late or rude, word soon gets around and then nobody will want to work with you.
Be organized!
Models often get called off places at the last minute and have very busy days.
You need to be on top of things if you want to succeed.
Buying a day-to-day planner can really help.
Confirm whether or not there will be a make-up artist on site for any work you are doing.times out of 100 there will be one, but there may be the odd occasion where you are required to do your own make-up.
If there is a make-up artist, then arrive fresh faced.
Be truthful about your measurements.
Don't say you're skinnier than you are just to get a shoot.
Once there, the stylist will have problems and you will get found out.
Word will get around and you could find yourself without a career!
Treat modeling like a real job.
Girls that don't take it seriously have small chances of succeeding in their modeling career.
Realize that it is harder than it appears and there's a lot of work behind all that glitz and glamor at fashion shows.