qualities.brainsInquire whether local school districts have openings and may need to hire teachers in an alternative certification plan for teaching full-time, in an emergency teaching position in a needed teaching field.
Seek information at school districts, state education agency, teacher education colleges : find out about being eligible, even if you may not have finished a degree or have not taken "teacher-education" courses and training -- or maybe you have a degree but not enough credit to be traditionally certified in the course work in the "needed" teacher fields such as math, science, bilingual eduction and possibly special education, etc.
The school districts collaborate with the colleges but do not set the requirements.
They are decided by the state education agency in coordination with the state teacher colleges.
You will typically not do practice teaching which college teaching programs would require for traditional certification when the student is a junior or senior in teacher training at college.
Vocational education teachers do not need much or perhaps need no college coursework or only a state certificate in the craft or skill for teaching technical crafts and trade class subjects in general -- but they would be licensed and certified in their field of crafts and skills such as in the building trades and automobile mechanics and other similar areas and courses of training, work and study.
Apply seeking an appropriate teacher position vacancy (sometimes the class is taught by a substitute teacher for several months until a more qualified teacher is hired) : get references and official college transcripts mailed to the school administration offices where you have already turned in the application.
When there is a vacancy for which you are being considered to be hired -- then you would be asked to schedule interviews for hiring.
Expect to be interviewed both at the district office and at each school where you are considered for hiring.
There may be several candidates, and the interviews may be crucial in your being the one accepted by the principal of the school and hired.
Dress and behave professionally and be pleasant and calm.
You will be asked on the application and during interviews:
Why do you want to be a teacher.
What are your long term career goals.
How will you handle classroom discipline, and similar questions.
Get hired to a teaching position, and then you will be required to file a plan and make adequate progress toward becoming fully certified within the time allowed.
Begin teaching as a non-degreed, or non-certified teacher : hired under some form of legal regulation of your training and your progress in academic course work supervised and counseled by a college or university Department of Teacher Education or [your] State Education Agency (or Education Services Center), under the laws of your state.
Finish the required alternative plan or deficiency plan while teaching : similar to a college degree plan as an alternative teacher certificate candidate by going to district teacher training and college evenings and/or on Saturdays, and summer sessions at college.
Pass the required standardized subject matter test in the subject teaching field as required in your state.
You might in some cases be allowed to try again on a probationary basis to pass the test by a certain date while teaching, or reassigned until your pass the test if the local district needs or wants to keep you.
Find out what is the minimum number of credit hours : for subject areas and teaching fields in matters of classification as "qualified" to teach under provisions of the alternative certification laws and rules to seek an alternative teacher certificate in your state.
To be eligible for consideration for such teaching you would be required at least the minimum grade average and number of college credit hours, for example: some states require at least being classified as a senior in good standing with a GPA (grade point average) on a 4 point scale "C+" (2.5), or "B-" (between 2.5 and 3.0) average in college, and possibly require a "B" (3.0) average in your teaching field subject such as math or science.
A teaching field may be similar to taking a minor in a subject: some states requireor 24 approved college hours including 12 advanced level credit hours to be completed to become "permanently/or provisionally" certified.
While your degree may be earned in any valid degree subject, and most degree subjects are potentially teaching fields, yet some may not be taught in the schools, yet you may still be hired for teaching a needed subject if you possess the minimum qualifications.
Teaching fields become classified as "needed" teaching fields as determined by the school district -- depending on their needs and state law.