example.Be sure that you are Catholic or thinking about becoming Catholic.
For more information on becoming Catholic, see the related wikiHow Become Catholic below.
Pray about your vocation.
Take any feelings or advice that have led you to consider the priesthood and give them to God, then wait patiently and openly for a response.
Realize that everyone has a vocation and if a person is truly open to theirs, God will reveal it to him or her.
Talk to your parish priest, your diocese's vocations director, or the vocation of a religious order if you are familiar with them.
You can get in touch with the vocations director through your parish or by looking in your local telephone directory.
A quick Google search of the term Catholic Religious Orders will give you lists of different communities of priests such as the Jesuits, Dominicans, or Oblates.
Also consider Missionary Priesthood.
These tend to focus on cross-cultural missions where you live among the poor and disadvantaged.
They will talk with you about your vocation and possibly get you on a retreat specifically for men discerning the priesthood.
Go through the application process for the seminary through your diocese or through the religious order.
This process usually includes several questions about yourself and your desire to discern the priesthood.
If you're accepted, go to the seminary.
Unless you're somewhat older, you should expect to spend at least 6-8 years there, depending on how much college experience you have.
Typically religious orders have a slightly different formation process, based on their own needs.
Check with them about the exact steps they take that lead to ordination.
While you're there, continue to pray and discern God's will.
Above all, do what your rector, bishop, vocation's director, or other superiors ask you to do.
The final test of whether or not you have a vocation to the priesthood is the call of the bishop.
If the bishop does not call you to Holy Orders, you do not have a vocation to the priesthood.
The bishop's call is definitive.
Be ordained a transitional deacon, making your promises of celibacy and obedience.
Be ordained a priest.