talent.Remember that you're not perfect.
Most of us are disgruntled and obsessed with real (and some imagined)negative aspects of our lives which tend to dominate our outlook and perspective and mar the happiness we may find in simple things.
It helps to remember that however perfect appearances may be, all of us without exception have some low points and flaws to us.
Everyone has problems even if they are not visible.
Some of us are more clever in hiding them than others.
Write down all the positives in your life: your looks, your family, your achievements, hobbies, etc. What you may take for granted, there are others who crave for them - that s life for you!Hold your head high, flaunt your assets and be proud of it.
Feel adequate.
You can do it and you will make it.
In the eternal sense, all of us do.
Put your ego aside and take the first step to build and sustain relationships - a Christmas card, planning a reunion or even an e-mail.
When you come right down to it, for most of us, if we go down memory lane, our fondest and most touching memories involve people and relationships.
All of us are busy and lose touch with that special high school friend or even a kind teacher who has affected us profoundly.
It will be well worth it to genuinely surrender yourself to love, friends and life.
Sometimes things may not work out; at least you tried.
You are a winner for that.
It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
Make eye contact with people and smile more often.
Look into another s eyes without fear.
It might take enormous effort at first for some of us who have long since lost touch with anything other than deadlines and pressing appointments.
After a few sessions it will become a natural part of your personality.
The plastic smile will become genuine.
It is an acquired habit unlike popular belief.
Some people might not smile back - it s ok. It s about you and not about them.
One day you will clash smiles with a mischievous cherubic child or a toothy old man with eyes that speak of eternal wisdom and kindness and you will be gripped with a sense of profound human bonding which will make your day.
Take the time to enjoy yourself-mayeb fly a kite
Take time for yourself - do something that makes you feel alive and just plain happy.
Even if you are the busiest soccer mom in town or juggling 2 jobs to make ends meet.
You and your happiness are important.
Get in touch with yourself even if it's just one hour every week.
Fly a kite, get working on that old unfinished sweater at the back of your closet or go get tickets for the play that you ve always wanted to see.
Don t feel guilty, you re worth the indulgence.
Lose yourself in the moment and forget about schedules and budgets.
Your family will appreciate the good mood that you will be in later.
Remember that you don t need to be a world class athlete or have the body of a Las Vegas show girl.
Most of us feel better about ourselves and are more confident when we incorporate some form of exercise routine in our lives.
Consistency is key and amount is not.
Try to combine it with things you enjoy - nature walking, martial arts or belly dancing.
Don t have the time?
Even sit-ups or Pilates for 10 minutes three times a week can change your life.
Check out some good work-out DVDs at amazon.com.
You probably will feel lousy doing it.
But the adrenalin rush of the aftermath is what you should aim for and concentrate on.
Learn something new.
Make time for taking a class in something you ve always admired and wanted to be able to do.
You don t need to become an expert in it.
Just being a part of the learning process will re-energize you.
That exotic new language you wish you knew or that glamorous world of Latin dance that you wish you were a part of - this is the time and yes you can make time and laziness is no excuse.
Get some new CDs or take a voice lesson.
For some of us music stirs our souls and catapults us to throes of ecstasy.
It will certainly ease the tension during a traffic jam or break the monotony of everyday cooking when you listen to music that makes your heart sing.
One good thing about music is that you don t have to be good at it to enjoy it.
Have you always been told that you are tone deaf?
Don t worry about haters.
Those poor souls probably do not know how to live and be happy like you and I. If music doesn t do it for you, try to get into it.
There is such a variety - you just might discover one you like.
Like many things, music is also an acquired interest which could be life changing.