towelsSet up your red-eyed tree frog's home.
Before you buy your frog, you'll need to have a home set up.
Use bark, dirt, or paper towels for substrate.
Purchase some fake plants for your tree frog or frogs to climb on.
You can use real plants too, however, it is not recommended.
Real plants may require special lighting and care.
Plus, some live plants may carry bacteria harmful to your frog.
A water dish for your new pet is essential because they need to bathe and soak in water at night.
The top of the cage must be covered with a glass or screen top that so that your frog cannot escape.
A light can be placed above the screen and turned on during the day.
Put a humidity gauge and thermometer inside the tank to monitor the temperature and humidity.
An undertank heater should be placed under the terrarium to ensure that the temperature stays betweenand 80 degrees.
These can be found at most pet stores.
Set the humidity correctly.
Humidity is very important.
These frogs come from a tropical environment that is very humid.
All you need to do is fill a spray bottle with spring water (chlorinated water is not good for Red-Eyed Tree Frogs), and spray the inside of the cage a few times a day to keep humidity above 70%.
Automatic misters can be used as a useful alternative.
Be aware that automatic misters are expensive, and sell for $100 upwards.
And you still must remember to refill them with water.
Feed your frogs correctly.
Buy small sized crickets at the pet store and house them in a cricket keeper until you are ready too feed them to your frog.
You can pick up crickets using your fingers, but tweezers, popsicle sticks, and various other methods are effective in picking up crickets.
Either place the crickets in a bowl inside the cage where the frog is sure to get them, or simulate life in the wild by putting them in the cage anywhere and letting the frog hunt for them.
Frogs should get 12 to 16 small crickets per week.
If your frog appears to have trouble catching or swallowing food, see a vet right away.
It is important to provide a proper diet for Red Eyed Tree Frogs.
Crickets should be dusted in calcium and vitamin powder every time they are fed. This can easily be done by placing the crickets in a covered container or bag and adding the calcium and/or vitamin powder.
Shake and serve.
In addition, crickets are not very nutritious unless they are gut loaded.
This can be done with commercial powder or various other foods (such as carrots).