peace.Decide what you want to do with your computer.
All computers and platforms will function well for casual computing, including web browsing, document manipulation, scheduling and management, and multimedia playback.
However, there are some platforms which excel in specific areas:
Games.
Many games are available for both Macs and Windows PCs, but this is one area where things are greatly skewed.
If hardcore, cutting-edge gaming is one of your primary reasons for buying a computer, a Windows PC is advisable.
The library of games available for the PC is exhaustive, and hardware specifically tweaked for gaming performance is much more readily available for Windows.
Some of the more popular titles are released much later, if at all, for the Mac.
There is no native DirectX support in MacOS and Linux, although there are emulators such as Wine and Cedega.
If you're looking for a computer to play games on, focus on a PC.
The array of graphics cards and upgradability also favor Windows-based computers.
OpenOffice.org
Home Office.
Microsoft's ubiquitous Office suite is available on both platforms, although with slightly different offerings, notably, the Access database module is absent from the Mac version.
Apple has recently released iWork ', which currently consists of an MS Office-compatible word processor called Pages, a spreadsheet application called Numbers, and presentation software called Keynote.
A large number people regard Keynote as being far superior to PowerPoint for quality presentations.
Beyond that, there are a plethora of third-party solutions for both systems such as the free OpenOffice.org software, as well as Sun's Star Office.
Microsoft Office 2007 can be installed on Linux too.
iLife is exclusive to the Mac and has iMovie, iPhoto, iDVD and GarageBand
Content Creation.
Although Windows plays host to a score of Adobe's multimedia content creation software, the Mac has been home to these applications for a long time.
Many professionals who need to create studio-quality content will opt for MacOS because of both its history and community involved in this field of work.
The Mac has been long touted as an artist's choice.
Even though this does not necessarily address the hardware or software differences of the platforms (there are little, if any at all), it does generate "buzz" that helps drive and market the Mac to professional studios.
In turn, it generates a community of professionals willing to help each other with software tips and techniques.
For instance, most Hollywood movie special effects are created on the Macintosh platform, including Pixar's successful computer-generated movies.
Adobe Creative Suite includes Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Premiere, Photoshop, InDesign and After Effects
Remember that there are no limits . Learn the strengths of each platform.
Any specific computer system that is sold as a PC, no longer has the same limitations of PCs decades ago.
It is easy to be ensnared in this thought process, especially when fans of each platform emphasize specific strengths.
There is no such thing as the best platform overall; there are only best platforms for each individual and their intended use.
Strengths of each platform will help guide you to understand what best suits your needs.
Apple Mac: Historically known as an easy to use platform with powerful multimedia applications.
These are no longer a Mac's primary strengths, due to recent changes in computer hardware and software.
Instead, the Mac's strengths are focused on a no-fuss, pre-configured and pre-installed system with a variety of software and utilities to get even the most computer-illiterate users up and running in a minimal amount of time, with good user support.
Apple laptops are also know for their sleek designs and attractive looks.
Apple has been consistently ranked number one in product reliability and customer support by Consumer Reports, and for good reason.
Since Apple designs the Operating System and controls all hardware configurations the end result is increased reliability and product support.
Apple also has its customer support center based in the United States, unlike many other manufacturers who have outsourced customer support to other countries.
Pre-built PC: Many people run Windows because it's what they know, and what their schools, offices, and friends use.
Some pre-built PCs are now shipping with Ubuntu or other Linux distributions.
The strength of pre-built PCs is that you receive a pre-configured and pre-installed system that is ready to install most third-party software and be compatible with a majority of other computers in existence.
Custom-built PC: Sometimes viewed with a bad reputation, or viewed as an option that is 'just for computer geeks', custom-built PCs don't receive the proper respect or consideration when new computer users make a purchasing decision.
Despite their reputation for high-end, specialized systems, opting for a custom-built PC to run Linux, Windows, or MacOS can be a frugal and rewarding choice.
The strengths of a custom built PC are focused on price, performance, and freedom.
MacBook Pro
Be aware of any hurdles you may encounter . PCs of each platform have strengths, but they also have weaknesses that may hinder your goals and desired usage.
No computer is perfect, and the same concept applies to all platforms.
Apple Mac: Weaknesses focus on price and compatibility.
Apple desktops and laptops are very expensive when compared to other PCs.
They are also very proprietary in regards to their hardware, software, and software licensing even though they're based upon an open source BSD kernel (Darwin).
This brings a higher cost of hardware and services, resulting in a higher ownership cost.
Though it should be noted that the average Macintosh user is more inclined (and more able) to keep a computer system for a longer period of time, resulting in lower average ownership cost.
Pre-built PC: Similar to a Mac, except without the price downside, and sometimes less proprietary hardware.
Some manufacturers such as Dell and HP/Compaq will sell models that are very proprietary (power connection, motherboard size, system layout, etc.), yet others may adhere to component standards used throughout the PC industry.
It varies by each manufacturer and their model.
This in itself is a weakness.
Also, Windows licensing has become extremely restrictive with Vista, and support for these consumer-level pre-built systems is questionable at best - many peripheral devices (printers, scanners, etc.) that worked with older systems no longer work with a Vista-running computer.
Custom-built PC: A weakness associated with custom-built PCs is that they are less user-friendly for new computer users.
This may be offset with the help of friends and acquaintances who are able to build the system and offer advice.
Yet, there is no denying that a PC built from individual parts requires a good deal of research and a high learning curve for non-technical users.
Apple Mac
Mac laptop (called MacBooks) trackpads has only one "mouse button", but you can do right clicks by tapping the trackpad with two fingers.
Apple's current line of laptops allow you to right click by clicking the right-hand side of the trackpad/button.
Connecting a regular, 3, or multi-button mouse will get past this limitation.
Apple's 'Mighty Mouse' has been adopted as a Macintosh multi-button mouse, with a multi-directional scroll wheel, which comes included with the iMac (Mac Desktop computer).
An iMac is an all-in-one desktop computer, built behind a widescreen monitor.
It includes built-in Bluetooth, wireless connectivity, speakers, a microphone, and a web cam.
The power cable is essentially all that is required to run the computer.
An iMac has a limited upgrade path, that my result in purchasing a new computer to perform an upgrade.
MacOS can be more secure than Windows since it's not often a target of virus and malware developers.
This is mostly because it isn't cost effective for virus writers to target Macs, because Macs have a smaller share of the PC market.
Mac is also built upon a BSD kernel (Darwin), which helps boost its stability and decrease its susceptibility to existing viruses.
The most powerful (and most customizable) Macintosh is currently the Mac Pro.
It supports up toquad-core 3.2 GHz Intel processors, for a total of 8 cores, up to 32 GB of 800 MHz DDR2 RAM, 4 1-TB SATA hard drives for a total of 4 TB of storage space, either up to 4 ATI Radeon 256 MB HD 2600 XT graphics cards which can support 2 additional 30-inch Apple Cinema Displays per card or one 1.5 GB NVIDIA Quadro FX 5600 graphics card, and 2 16x SuperDrives for the ultimate computing experience in gaming, design, video making, programming, server hosting, 3D rendering, and productivity.
Pre-built PC:
It is possible to get an all-in-one designed PC.
Some examples include the Gateway ONE, the Dell XPS One.
There has not yet been a single widespread Linux malware threat of the type that Microsoft Windows software currently faces; this is commonly attributed to the malware's lack of root access and fast updates to most Linux vulnerabilities.
Windows systems have the widest and best selection of anti-virus and anti-malware software available to them.
This doesn't necessarily make the operating system any more secure than other platforms, but it does offer some of the best detection algorithms and scanning throughput performance of all other platforms.
Where there is a need, there's a solution.
Windows systems are frequently targeted by virus and malware developers, so third parties and stepped up to confront this weakness with powerful applications.
Custom-built PC:
A common misconception is that PCs are sold in drab, plain looking cases.
In fact, there is a striving community of people who enjoy modifying PC cases, resulting in fantastic computers.
These "mods" can be anything from a paint job, to gutting and cutting an existing case, or even fabricating an entirely new case.
This is as much an endeavor for better cooling, faster speeds, and quieter PCs, as it is purely for artistic and aesthetic value.
Linux can be used with either a PC setup or a Mac and can be bought pre-installed from Dell online with Ubuntu Linux.
Linux has much lower system requirements then Mac or Windows and is totally free and open source, because of this there are several versions of Linux to choose from.
Linux can be used on just about any processor platform from xto the old PowerPC based Macs.
The only problem is that if you don't know how to use the console in Linux (inputing commands, somewhat similar to MSDOS, or Unix startup in Mac) you will be missing out on a portion of what Linux has to offer.
Linux also is compatible with many Windows (and Mac) applications via software such as Wine and Crossover Office, and can emulate MacOS X with different software.
Linux and Macs are both UNIX-based, so they can share some of the same codebase, making them both reliable options.