statement.Look for discrepancies between the art and the school.
A complete Taekwondo curriculum includes: philosophy, meditation, basics, forms, self-defense, sparring, breaking, stretching, leadership skills and fitness.
A school that doesn't strictly adhere to this curriculum, or to Korean traditions and standards in general, may still be a good school.
But, the further it strays from tradition, the more careful you need to be in judging the school.
At the very least, inquire as to why these discrepancies exist, and expect an answer that checks out.
Taekwondo is an unarmed martial art.
In Taekwondo there are no weapons such as staffs, kamas, nunchuck, etc. Many unqualified Taekwondo schools add weapons training as a way to supplement an incomplete curriculum.
Traditional Taekwondo uses a white uniform called a dobok.
The white uniform symbolizes purity and perfection of character that Taekwondo students are expected to strive for.
It is common for schools that do not understand the philosophy or history of Taekwondo to utilize lots colorful uniforms, stripes and patches.
Taekwondo teaches self-defense.
Physical fitness is a pre-requisite for self-defense.
Limited contact sparring is also an essential step to learning adequate self-defense skills.
Beware Taekwondo schools that do not practice sparring, use only non-contact sparring or avoid competitions altogether.
Competition, not isolation, breeds excellence.
Taekwondo is distinctly and proudly Korean.
In Korean a Taekwondo school is called a "Dojang" and sometimes "Kwan".
The Korean terms for instructor "Sabum" and "Kwan Jang" for the person in charge of the school.
Beware Taekwondo schools that use the Japanese or Chinese terms such as "Dojo", "Professor", "Sifu" or "Sensei".
Taekwondo is a martial art, not a sport!
Taekwondo sparring is an Olympic sport; however, sparring is only one aspect of a complete Taekwondo curriculum.
A school that focuses only on sparring is incomplete just as a school that does not include sparring is incomplete.
The main training consists of: Sparring, workouts, stretching and playing educative games.
Research the instructor.
For WTF Taekwondo: The South Korean government recognizes the Kukkiwon in Seoul Korea as the World Taekwondo Federation Headquarters.
The Kukkiwon issues international black belt certification, instructor certification, publishes the Kukkiwon textbook, sets the standards for techniques and forms and holds an international tournament each year called the Hanmadang.
Many unqualified WTF instructors do not even know what the Kukkiwon is. A WTF instructor who is not certified by the Kukkiwon may still be qualified, but they should at least be familiar with the Kukkiwon; their qualifications can be judged by the remainder of the steps below...
For ITF Taekwon-Do: Does the instructor claim to 'do ITF Taekwon-Do' yet is not qualified by the ITF.
The ITF has split intofactions, however anyone teaching ITF Taekwon-do should be recognised by at least one of them.
The ITF set the technical standards and approve gradings.
How long has the instructor been practicing?
What is the instructor's rank?
For WTF Taekwondo, the Kukkiwon recognizesth degree black belt as the minimum rank required for instructors.
This usually takes a minimum of 12 years of training.
[2]
Find the instructor's certification and research the organization that issued the certification.
Call and verify the certification.
Get professional references and verify them.
Other reputable instructors that can vouch for the instructor is a start.
Professional associations are another place to check.
Do a criminal background check.
This is important!
A lot of people that have martial arts background but fail to legitimately make it in the business world will turn to martial arts as a career because it is not regulated by the government.
It is relatively easy to fool the uneducated public about martial arts qualifications.
Would you trust this person with your child/wife/husband?
Some instructors abuse their position of authority and trust by treating children and women inappropriately.
[] [4] Remember that instructors aren't regulated, so it is up to you to decide whether this is someone you trust your loved ones with.
A real master is someone with an unusual level of skill that is usually accompanied by an unusual level of humility and dedication to serving others.
In ITF Taekwon-do the rank of master is given toth and 8th Dans, and the title of Grandmaster is given to 9th Dans.
Beware of anyone claiming to do ITF Taekwon-Do and claiming to be a 10th Dan as no such grade exists in the ITF.
See if the instructor has a facebook or other social network profile.
Beware the instructor who has filled this with foul language, insults of other martial artists and other examples of lack of respect.
Research the students.
Always watch a class at the school you are considering before joining.
If possible, watch a promotion test / grading.
A good school has nothing to hide and will allow spectators.
Are the students happy?
Disciplined?
Competent?
Physically fit?
Well groomed?
Well spoken?
Taekwondo is about discipline...a good Taekwondo school should have very well behaved students that speak politely, treating others with a level of respect sadly lacking in today's society.
Watch other area martial arts classes and watch videos on youtube.
How do these students compare?
Find out how many black belts the school has and how long it has been going.
Large numbers of black belts, especially very young ones usually means very low standards, unregulated by genuine associations.
A good school is clean and solemn.
There should be sense of dignity while class is conducted.
The students and the spectators should be well behaved.
Beware schools that look like day cares.
If it looks and smells like a day care go elsewhere.
Undisciplined children running about is a big warning sign.
Beware the instructor who is clearly unfit / overweight and does not join in anything physical him / herself.
Ask the instructor to show you the practical applications of the techniques you are being taught.
If they don't work then find another instructor who can show you how to do them so that they work.