BulbsMake sure to size the decorative fixture to the space.
Not all foyers can accommodate a large chandelier, so make sure the size proportions are correct.
Likewise, if you have a larger space, you'll need a larger fixture.
If you'll be able to view the fixture from above, make sure to select a foyer chandelier or pendant that looks attractive from second story
viewing.Remember that stairways and halls must have good general lighting for safety.
To prevent accidents, stairs should be lit from top to bottom with switches in both places.
For safety in hallways, place lighting fixtures everyto 10 feet.
Tie in the fixtures you choose by matching your foyer chandelier or pendant with close-to-ceiling fixtures for hallways and smaller chain hung fixtures for
stairways.Use matching wall sconces to complement the hanging foyer fixture.
Always mount a sconce above eye level (approximately?
from the center of the fixture to the floor) so that the lamp source is not
visibleUse recessed lighting to light a general area.
This is preferred because the light source is concealed.
Close-to-Ceiling Fixtures, Wall Sconces, and Interior Lamps are also excellent choices and provide ample lighting.
These fixtures are not only decorative pieces, but are ideal sources of task lighting for reading or playing
games.Try recessed lighting or track lighting to make a room come alive by accenting artwork, wall washing, or grazing.
Interior lamps are also a great
choice.Try CFL Lighting to get more value for your
money.Use a chandelier or pendant for general lighting.
Both fixtures are excellent sources of lighting and are sure to set the tone of your dining room.
Recessed wall washers can also provide additional light while helping to create an illusion of a larger room space.
When hanging a chandelier, make sure that the chandelier is" to 12" smaller than the narrowest side of the table.
The bottom of the pendant or chandelier should be approximately 30" above your
table.Add adjustable halogen recessed fixtures aimed on the table and chandelier.
This will provide additional light on the table, and will also bring out the brilliance of the chandelier.
Consider companion sconces on either side of a china cabinet or
hutch.Go with decorative fluorescent fixtures centered over a workspace.
Kitchens less thansquare feet require a two lamp fluorescent, up to 250 square feet will require supplemental lighting.
Down lights mounted 18" off the edge of the cabinets, and spaced 3' to 4' on centers is an excellent way to create additional general
lighting.Use undercabinet lighting to help prevent shadows on the counters, while adding critical light to the workspace.
Fluorescent undercabinet fixtures are also a cost efficient lighting source.
In open areas over sinks use recessed downlights mounted directly over the sink.
Mounting mini-pendants" to 24" above the work surface is an ideal way to light up a breakfast bar or counter dinettes, a pendant on a dimmer, hanging 24" to 30" above the table, is ideal for task lighting.
Size the fixture to roughly 12" less than the diameter of the
table.Illuminate your special home objects, architectural detail, or food presentation areas with track or recessed lighting.
Use undercabinet lighting in cabinets, valences, and toe spaces and create drama while also supplying additional light to navigate around your kitchen in the
evening.Choose fluorescent lights to provide that missing ambient lighting.
The ambient light provided by fluorescent fixtures will fill in your kitchen's shadows, reduce contrast, and light vertical surfaces to give the space a brighter
feel.Use several recessed down lights or decorative surface-mounted fixtures for areas oversquare feet.
Add companion close-to-ceiling fixtures to supplement bath wall brackets in larger bathrooms.
Companion close to ceiling fixtures supplement bath wall brackets in larger
bathrooms.Mount one fixture over the mirror to light a bathroom, but realize it can cause shadows on the face.
If using recessed lighting, avoid creating shadows by not mounting them directly over the mirror.
Adding wall brackets to the side of the mirror is one of the best way to eliminate shadows on the face.
For mirrors under" wide use vertically mounted wall brackets and position them 75 to 80 inches above the floor.
If the fixture uses exposed lamps, do not use a higher wattage than 40 watts.
Fixtures with clear or well diffused glass use nor more than 75 watts.
Color corrected fluorescent lamps should be used when fluorescent fixtures are desired.
In the shower, use recessed lights or a ceiling mounted plastic
unit.Try a small recessed light directed at a piece of decorative art work or a beautiful powder basin creates an extra layer of lighting.
Angle a recessed shower fixture and highlight nice tilework or make your shower fixtures
sparkle.The selection of lighting fixtures is of two primary types: decorative and functional.
Decorative fixtures are used along pathways, on walls and posts, and entrance foyers.
The design of these fixtures should complement the look and feel of your house and landscape while providing sufficient lighting for safety, security, and functionality.
When installing a wall lantern, size the fixture to the door and surrounding space.
Wall lanterns should be mounted slightly above eye level at about" to 66" from the center of the fixture to the floor.
Post-top lanterns can be selected to match the style of the wall lanterns.
Large post top lanterns make a better impression when used in large open
space.Be mindful, however that most lantern-style fixtures are glaring light sources.
They spill light in all directions and can be a cause of light tresspass (onto others' properties) and distracting glare for drivers.
Many lighting designers forego lantern style lights entirely and instead use lights with hoods (that shield the glare) and lights that are positioned within plant material so they are hidden
completely.Hidden lights are of the second type - functional.
They are strategically positioned around the property to selectively illuminate plant material and architecture.
A skilled lighting designer positions fixtures so only the effect of the illumination is seen, not the lighting fixtures
themselves.Add landscape lighting, deck lighting, and step lighting to not only bring out the beauty of the home at night, but also add extra security and