environmentSmear a light film of biodegradable soap on the outside of your pots before cooking.
This will help keep the pots from charring and make clean up easier.
Boil cleaning water while you're cooking if you have an open burner, or on the fire while you eat.
It's a lot easier to clean cookware right after cooking; otherwise the food cools and hardens on the inside of the pots.
Set out three pots or buckets :
Wash pot: contains hot water with a few drops of biodegradable soap.
Hot-rinse pot: clear, hot water.
Cold-rinse pot: cold water with a tiny splash of bleach or similar substance to kill bacteria (see Tips below)
Scrape plates and pans before washing.
Wipe them clean to get most of the food particles off of them.
This will keep your wash water from getting too dirty, too fast.
Scrub the dishes in the wash pot.
If you do this right after you cook, it should require minimal scrubbing (unless you completely burned the pot while cooking).
Dip the dishes in the hot-rinse pot, holding them with tongs.
This is important because it gets all of the soap off of the dishes so that they are safe to eat off of later.
Immerse the dishes in the cold rinse for twenty (20) seconds.
Place the dishes on a clean ground cloth or on a piece of tin foil to drip dry.
Let them air dry if you have time; otherwise a paper towel will work.
To air dry, place the dishes in a clean, dry, mesh drawstring bag, and hang the drawstring on a tree branch or other handy fixture such that the bag with dishes inside doesn't touch anything.
Air and sunshine will dry everything quickly without touching any surface that may not be clean.
The bleach will evaporate.
Dispose of the dirty dish water by first running a strainer through it thoroughly to remove all of the food particles.
Carry the water 200 feet (60 m) away from your campsite and any water sources, and fling it out in a widespread area, or pour it in the fire pit if you have one.
Take the strainer and empty it into a bag that you will pack and carry out with you.
Pour your rinse water into the empty wash tub to rinse out any soap residue.
Pour this water out over the same spot you dumped your wash water.
Find sand or gravel (that from a stream or river bed is the least likely to have organic matter in it).
Heat water as described above.
Smear a small amount of any leftover cooking grease on the dishes, add wood ashes from the campfire , and mix in a few teaspoons of hot water until a thick cleaning solution results.
This soapy mixture is harsh--see Warnings below.
Use a handful of sand or gravel as an abrasive to scrub the dishes clean, using a separate wash pot and rinse pot.
Drip or air dry.
Before you build a campfire, clean out the firepit.
Do not burn trash in the firepit.
Hardwood ashes are best for doing dishes.
When you are done cooking, allow the fire to burn down to a manageable level.
Select a good sized metal pot; if you have one that is crusty or greasy from cooking, that is the one to use.
Use a long handled serving spoon to put hot coals and ashes into the pot.
About 2 cups will do for most messes.
Add just enough water to make a thin, chunky paste that is hot to the touch but not scalding, and mix it with the ashes.
Smear the hot ash paste liberally over all dirty dishes and utensils.
It will look awful, but it works.
Use the charcoal to scrub any crusted-on food.
For stubborn crust, let the ash paste soak in for a few minutes.
Use non-stick pans, preferably Analon, and non stick grills, and dedicate a cheap set of cooking gear for camping--one which you don't mind getting charred on the outside.
When cooking pans are still hot immediately after cooking, quickly wipe them out with a paper towel, using tongs to avoid burning your hands.
Repeat with additional towels if needed until almost no residue is left.
Spray some window cleaner or other spray cleaner--just a little will do--on the pans and let it sit on them as you eat.
When you're finished eating, spray some cleaner on the rest of your dishes.
Wipe the dishes soaked in the spray with paper towels so there is very little residue left on them.
Rinse with clean water.