.Get the person registered to vote . If they live in the USA, forward the person any of the following links so they can get registered now:
RockTheVote.com Non-partisan website will register voters for any party or no party.
HeadCount.org a non-partisan, not-for-profit organization devoted to voter registration and participation in democracy.
This organization was created inby a group of artists, music industry professionals and fans, all determined to make sure the live music community is well-represented at the polls.
GOP.com - Republican Party voter registration.
VoteForChange.com - Website run by the Obama campaign.
Allows people to register to vote, or request an absentee ballot or to see if they already are registered.
Probability (P) - In a large election, individual votes rarely make a difference, especially when there's a voting scheme in place like the Electoral College (US).
[3] As a result, many people don't feel like it's worth the effort.
Here are some ways to increase someone's perception that their vote can impact the election:
Give them examples in which a handful of votes have made a difference.
These should be examples from your own nation or region's history, preferably in which the outcome changed the direction of the nation in a significant way.
An example of this in the U.S. is that in 2000, one more vote per precinct in Florida would have elected Al Gore.
Encourage them to vote locally.
The smaller the election, the more an individual vote can count, and the more empowered the voter will feel.
Remind the person that candidates in large elections often start out getting voted into power at a lower level, and an individual person can have significant influence on a local level.
Once a person registers to vote, they might vote in a large election, too, especially if voting for both takes place on the same day and in the same location.
Remind them that some elections have been decided by one vote.
Ed Watson, a state representative in Texas lost his reelection bid by one vote.
Point out that the turnout is rarely more than half of the registered voters.
A candidate who is behind in the polls% to his opponent's 60% will win if 80% of his supporters vote and only 50% of his opponent's supporters vote.
(80% of 40% = 32% for him, 50% of 60% = 30% for his opponent, 38% don't vote).
This means the less popular candidate can still get elected if his supporters are better motivated.
Benefits (B) - People who don't vote might not realize how the elected official's decision can directly affect his or her life.
Offer specific examples of ways in which the election of a certain candidate could benefit the voter and/or a group or cause the voter feels strongly about.
Imagine that you're answering the question "What's in it for me?" When dealing with benefits, you're making both a logical and an emotional case for voting.
When you talk about benefits, use logic; base your predictions on verifiable examples of how that candidate has taken action in the past.
But when choosing which benefits to emphasize, and choosing the way in which you express them, you need to relate to the person on a personal level.
Start off by understanding the potential voter.
What issues do they feel strongly about?
What are they angry about?
Worried about?
Learn about their family members.
How old are they?
Where do they work?
How will the outcome of the election affect their family members?
children or grandchildren - education
young adults - military, college, jobs
aging parents - retirement, government support
laws and initiatives that could affect a particular industry
Immediate gratification (D) - How does a person obtain satisfaction from the very act of voting, regardless of the outcome ? This is where factors like loyalty, civic duty, affirmation, and even guilt might come into play.
None of these factors can be measured, of course, and your ability to empathize with the individual is of critical importance.
Here are some ways to strike a chord:
Suffrage parade, 1313, US: 1913: "Women were spit upon, slapped in the face, tripped up, pelted with burning cigar stubs, and insulted by jeers and obscene language too vile to print or repeat."
Tell or show them how the right to vote (suffrage) was obtained.
In many nation's histories, individuals had to fight for the right to vote, and their struggles can put the act of voting into a different perspective.
Tell stories, show movies or documentaries, and show pictures of the people who fought and sacrificed for the ability to vote, and illustrate what your particular society was like before people could vote.
Remind the person how lucky they are to be able to vote.
Talk about how different life is for those who live in nations where they cannot vote.
Emphasize those differences that the person probably can't imagine life without (and this will depend on how much you've gotten to know him or her from the previous step).
Foster allegiance to a particular candidate.
Help the person relate to the candidate, and/or show how the candidate helped the potential voter.
It's human nature to want to help people with whom you can relate, and it's also natural to want to help someone who helped you.
Help with paperwork (e.g. any registration procedures)
Offer free transportation to the voting site
Contact the person to remind him/her that election day is coming up