fee.Purchase good quality rice for a good quality outcome.
Old rice will not produce a tasty or light a meal as fresher rice.
Rice can be cooked in water, stock, milk, or broth to change its flavor during cooking.
Consider whether or not you wish to wash the rice.
For rice bought in a Western country, it has already been washed and cleaned prior to purchase.
[2] [3] Washing will simply remove nutrients (for example, in the United States, common rice is usually fortified with vitamins and minerals like iron and niacin).
However, washing is considered useful for separating the grains of rice (and is often done in Asian countries), [4] resulting in fluffier, lighter cooked rice with a fuller grain that doesn't stick.
And the Larousse Gastronomique recommends that unless rice has been pretreated or pre-cooked, it should always be washed in running water and drained well prior to cooking.
[5]
Washing will remove a good percentage of the starch in the grain, leaving the protein intact.
[6]
Soaking rice is more common in Asia than the West but some rice still needs soaking
Apart from basmati rice and wild rice, there is no need to soak the rice unless the recipe says so.
[7] If you decide to soak, or if the recipe requires it, the usual method is as follows:
Soak the rice in cold water for 30-60 minutes; or
Rinse or wash the rice in the sink until the water is clear enough to see the rice through it.
Basically, keep the water running on low while shaking the rice until the foggy white color turns to clean clear.
Rice that improves with soaking includes basmati, Thai, and long-grain rice.
Cook rice to the point of being al dente (firm but not hard), separate grains, and retaining its flavor.
[9] This does not apply for rice cooked in milk for dessert purposes, or for sticky rice.
Be careful not to split the grains unless this is the effect desired.
There are two actions that can cause the grains to break open, resulting in a mushy mess.
One is to add salt to the water, something that chef Paul Gayler recommends against.
[10] Equally, do not stir rice while it is cooking because this will also cause the grains to break, giving you sticky rice (unless that's the effect you're after, of course).
Even sticking the spoon in to taste the rice can impact its structure while cooking.
The only exception to this rule is risotto, which needs to be stirred.
[11]
Salt is not necessary when cooking rice, but some chefs believe it should be added.
Unless you add a ridiculous amount of salt, it will not significantly change the boiling temperature or time, but it will enhance the flavor of the rice.
However, it may break the grains open as mentioned above, so you might like to experiment to see what works best for you.
Use a large saucepan or pot.
Rice needs plenty of cooking space to avoid sticking or burning, and to give it the space to move about.
Have a rough idea of the right amounts of rice.
Standard rice amounts suggested by the Larousse Gastronomique are: [12]
65g (2 1/2 oz, 1/3 cup) per serving for a main dish
g (1 oz, 2 tablespoons) per serving for an hors d'oeuvre
g (1 1/2 oz, 3 tablespoons) per serving for a dessert
g (2 oz) uncooked per person for pilafs [13]
-40g (1-1 1/2 oz) per person for salads [14]
-20g (1/2 - 3/4 oz) per person for rice pudding.
[15]
To test for "doneness", squeeze rice grains between your fingers.
The grains should feel tender and not have a hard center.
Measure one cup of washed rice into a pot.
If you skipped the soaking/washing, you can start here with dry rice out of the bag.
Pour one and a half cups of cold water into the pot.
It depends on the rice and your preference you may want to add 1.75 cups of water.
Add 1/2 tablespoon of salt to the pot.
This step is optional if you don't agree on adding salt to rice.
Place the pot over a moderate to high heat.
When the rice comes to a rolling boil, turn down the heat to the minimum possible, and continue simmering for five more minutes.
Place a well sealed lid on the pot at this time.
A "rolling boil" is when large bubbles appear that cannot be dissipated by stirring, and will keep breaking the surface.
When making rice, the rolling boil is important so that enough steam builds up to completely cook the rice without it being over an open flame.
Turn off the heat after five minutes.
Place a paper towel between the lid and the pot to avoid moisture buildup.
Do not lift the lid as the steam inside will cook the rice through.
The pot of rice will be fully cooked, light and ready to eat about 10 minutes after the heat is turned off.
Take a little taste of the rice to be sure it is cooked (this should be no problem if you measured out the water correctly).
If the rice is still a bit crunchy, put the lid back on to retain the steam, and get a little bit of hot water from the tap (not too much, maybe a quarter of a cup), and add it to the pot.
Put the lid back on and wait another few minutes.
Once cooked, remove the lid and allow the steam to escape.
Fluff the grains using a fork.
[17]
Place the rice and water into a large saucepan or pot.
The suggested ratio is 450g (1 lb) long-grain white rice and 600ml (1 pint) water.
Bring to the boil over moderate heat.
Stir once only, then drop the heat to a simmer.
Leave to simmer for 10-12 minutes, uncovered.
During this time, the water should be absorbed by the rice.
Take the pot off the heat.
Place a dish cloth over the pot and add the lid of the pot over the dishcloth (it should fit tightly).
Place the pot on a very low heat and leave it for 10 minutes.
Place 200g (7.05 oz) of rice into the saucepan.
Put a clean finger into the rice.
Pour in the water until it reaches your first finger joint.
Fit a tight lid onto the saucepan.
Bring the water to the boil.
Once boiling, reduce to low heat and continue cooking.
The rice is ready when steam holes can be observed across the rice.
Pour 1 kg (2 1/4 lb, 5 cups) of rice into 3 liters (5 pints, 3 quarts) of boiling, salted water . Simmer for 10 minutes.
Remove the rice from the heat and wash in cold water.
Be prepared to add lots of water for the best outcome.
The traditional method of boiling advocates twice the volume of water for boiling rice as the standard.
However, chef Paul Gayler suggests that it is much better to boil rice in five to six times its volume of water for excellent results because this helps to dilute the starch and leaves distinct, light rice grains.
[23] The following method is based on Paul Gayler's measurements and method.
[24]
Use a large pot or saucepan.
Pour 3 liters (5 1/4 pints) of water in the pot.
Bring the water to a rolling boil.
Add 460g (1 lb) of rice.
Reduce the water to a simmer and cook for 12 to 15 minutes, or until tender but firm.
Wash the rice in cold water.
Bring water to boil in the steamer . Place the rice into the steamer.
Place olive oil or butter into the frying pan or skillet.
Add the amount of rice suggested by the recipe.
Gently fry over a low to medium heat.
In this case, stirring with a wooden spatula is advisable.
Avoid browning or burning the rice.
It should become transparent but not browned.
The usual amount of cooking time is 1 to 2 minutes but this may vary depending on the recipe.
[26]
Read the instructions.
Rice cookers vary and you should understand the ins and outs of your rice cooker prior to use.
It is also important to purchase a good quality rice cooker to ensure that the thermostat is accurate.
Find a bowl large enough.
The ratio of rice to water should be 450g (1 lb) rice and 600ml (1 pint) water, so check the bowl can manage this amount.
Add both water and rice.
Consider adding a touch of oil to the water.
This can help prevent the rice from boiling over.
[30]
Cover the bowl.
Place the bowl in the microwave with care.
Microwave initially for 5 minutes on full power.
Microwave on half power for 15 minutes.
Avoid stirring it at any stage.
Blanch the rice in hot water.
Rinse it and drain it well.
Pour the milk into a saucepan or pot.
The amount should be stated in the recipe.