sellersEvaluate where you work and how far you live from work.
Don't think of it in regular transportation terms.
Ask yourself what you would do if you had to get home without the use of a car or public transportation during an emergency.
Discuss with your family what you may do in an emergency if they can't reach you by cell phone.
Discuss your options and what scenarios would be practical.
Knowing what your actions may be will enable them to assist even if you can't communicate during the emergency.If your family hears of an emergency, they may be able to pick up your kids, meet you at a meeting place, or be ready to spring into action when they get your call, text, or third-party message.
Have a family action plan.
Coordinate with your co-workers and exchange ideas for creating individual jump-and-run bags ideal for your situation, urban area, and workplace.
If you work with someone who also lives near you, discuss in advance and plan on using the buddy system to get home together.
Have them pack a bag so you each have supplies.
Talk to management about turning kit-making into an office social or emergency planning exercise.
Get permission for everyone to bring their items, pack them as a team, and make a store trip for forgotten supplies.
Use a large, canvas, water resistant backpack with several compartments and padded shoulder straps.
A waist strap will help distribute weight and make the bag easier to carry long distances.Since you won't use this daily (and aren't buying for day to day durability) you can buy an inexpensive one from a discount store, military surplus store, dollar store, or even from a local thrift store.
Offer a young relative a few bucks for their left over bag from last school year.
It's all right to get one used or even with childish designs.
Think function over fashion.
Blackouts have shut down many cities, forcing people to walk miles.
Cell service can be spotty or nonexistent.
Subways can be down and vehicles backed up because of non-working traffic lights.
Think ahead!
Make a plan!
Buy reflective tape.
Visit a fabric or athletic store or look online for reflective tape.
Buy 1-3 yards as you will add it to your backpack and other items if necessary.
It's usually sold in rolls and is 1" wide or wider.
Add the reflective tape to the exterior of your backpack.
Use fabric glue to attach it if you don't sew.
Attach the reflective tape to the back of the bag and the front straps.
Be generous with the tape.
It may make you visible to drivers or emergency workers.
Save the leftover tape.
You'll need it for other projects.
Get a poncho or other rain gear that compacts nicely.
Use something you already have if it is adequate.
If you buy new, look for a brightly colored material (safety yellow is an option).
This can protect you from the elements on a long walk, provide shelter, and (with the tape) identify you to drivers.
Add reflective tape to your poncho since wearing it may cover your backpack.
Pack the folded poncho in your backpack.
If it doesn't fold into itself (as many do), you can compress it into a small bag to keep it out of your way.
You can also wrap thick rubber hair bands to compress it.
Those will also come in handy to keep long hair out of the way during the emergency.
(Hair in the eyes can obstruct vision in addition to being frustrating.)
Get a space blanket You can buy Mylar sheets (so-called space blankets) at hardware or camping supply stores.
They are large, lightweight, waterproof and exceptionally thin.
They come tightly packed (about the size of an ace bandage), and should be left in their original packaging until you need to use them.
(They're very hard to refold once opened.)
Because Mylar reflects heat, it can be used to retain body heat in extreme cold or to reflect away heat in extremely hot conditions.
Pack a whistle in your backpack.
A whistle will make more noise with less effort than yelling if you become trapped.
The higher pitch will also carry better than your voice.
Pack a pair of athletic shoes in your back pack.
In case of an emergency, you may have to run or walk long distances in unpredictable conditions.
You don't want to do that in heels or stiff leather work shoes.
Your safety may depend on moving quickly and traveling efficiently on foot.
Athletic shoes are an absolute must in every person's grab-and-go work kit!
Don't use a new pair, as these can cause blisters; pack a pair that is broken in but not worn out, if possible.
Even a worn pair is better than wingtips or heels.
Women should not pack dress flats or just a "comfortable" pair of shoes.
Do not pack sandals!
Pack athletic shoes with shock absorbing soles.
If you don't have any, you should buy some and wear them a few times before adding to your bag.
Many athletic shoes have reflective trims but you can add more.
You should still have some tape left over from the poncho and backpack.
Pack cotton crew athletic socks that are appropriate for your athletic shoes in terms of thickness.
Avoid low cut socks, as they don't protect your heels when walking long distances.
Women who wear skirts and dresses may benefit from packing knee high athletic socks to provide additional coverage for the legs.
Stuff the socks into the shoes so as to conserve space and keep your footgear together.
Create a small first aid kit using a quart or gallon size zipping storage bag.
Label your bag.
You can even add a piece of the reflective tape to make it easier to find if you drop it or are looking for it in a dark pack.
Include the following items:
Adhesive bandages: A few of each size will do.
Pack mostly the 1" since they work well for blisters.
Bandages that are foam instead of fabric offer more protection for blisters and can still be used for other first aid.
Antibiotic first aid ointment.
Benadryl or other antihistamine: Emergencies are not a good time to have an allergic reaction.
Epi-pen if you have been given one by your doctor for severe allergies.
They're usually willing to write prescriptions for several so you can keep several available.
Prescription medication to last a day or two in a well-labeled container.
If your medication changes, you need to update your kit.
Be very specific when labeling describe the pill (or whatever), the dose, and what it treats.
Don't forget an asthma inhaler if you are an asthmatic.
You may be walking and air quality could be questionable.
Pain killers, such as aspirin.
Look in the travel/trial size section of stores for small bottles.
Ace bandage: is great for rolled ankles or can be used to immobilize a limb.
Latex or vinyl gloves (if you are allergic to latex) are a must.
You could be around injured people or need to treat someone with your first aid kit.
Anti-bacterial hand gel for cleaning up.
Wash cloth or hand towel: can be used for clean up, wiping a sweaty brow or signaling.
Find a travel/trial size of saline solution (or contact lens rewetting solution) and include it in your kit.
Flushing eyes may be necessary for contact lens wearers or for anyone in dusty or polluted air.
It can also be used to irrigate a wound.
Assorted gauze or other first aid items.
You can use additional quart or gallon size plastic storage bags to keep items dry and organized.
Maglite type flashlights are extremely durable but heavier aluminum flashlights.
The larger ones can be used as a defensive weapon should you need it.
Decide if you can tolerate the weight and have room.
Pack a small flashlight . Find at least a small or medium flashlight or head light and make sure it has fresh batteries.
You won't get a warning on a massive power outage or evacuation.
A flashlight is a must.
Avoid penlights: they're too small and dim and their batteries die quickly.
Look for a small to medium light that takes AA or C batteries.
It depends on how much space you have, your needs and how much weight you can tolerate.
Lightweight plastic flashlights are great.
You don't need to spend a lot but make sure it works.
There are many newer, pocket-sized LED flashlights on the market that are less expensive (check discount), more durable (no bulbs to burn out or break), and produce more light per set of batteries.
Shakable flashlights have become popular but test its reliability, working time, and brightness before you rely on it in an emergency.
If it takes too much of your energy to work, it won't do you any good.
Head-mounted torches (headlights) are more versatile and practical than hand-held torches (traditional hand flashlights).
You can go full size (D cell) if you have room and can stand the weight.
Add some leftover reflective tape to your flashlight, especially if it's black.
It will save you from feeling around for it or having to dump your bag.
It will also make it easier to find it it's dropped.
Smoke and debris can be choking during a fire or earthquake.
A particle mask can be very helpful.
Pick up a dust face mask from your local hardware or paint store and add it to your kit.
They only cost a few cents.
If you need one, you really need one.
Getting lost can add insult to injury.
Traffic patterns are often changed and you may find yourself walking through unknown areas.
Keep a map with you of the city and note different routes to take out.
Pack a map of your city which includes streets and public transportation (subway stop) information.
You may be forced to detour, disembark a train early, or take an alternate route -- finding yourself in unfamiliar territory.
Always keep a map to find the best way to your destination.
Write down a list of emergency contact numbers.
Cell phone service may be down or your phone charge may not last.
Consider keeping the numbers of friends or family near work, in between work and home, and someone who could pick you up and offer shelter.
Keep the numbers stashed in your kit.
Phone traffic may be heavy and connections hard to come by, so don't rely on calling information first.
Your memory of numbers may also be strained in a stressful situation, so keep things written down.
Consider a portable charging unit for your phone.
There are solar and wind-up chargers available.
Others often use a few small batteries and convert the power to give your phone a small charge.
Check travel sites, mobile phone supply stores, or airport kiosks.
Stash cash for public phones, food vending, or any thing else that could come up.
Don't keep too much, just a few dollars and quarters.
Hide cash in your bag, but not too much.
You can often hide it under the sturdy cardboard bottom.
You can use this for transportation or to buy food or drink.
Don't forget to include several quarters should you need to use a public phone and be able to find one.
Don't keep a lot of cash or advertise what you keep in your bag.
You don't want your stash pilfered by a dishonest co-worker, customer or cleaning staff.
Pack a small pack of tissues and moist wipes.
It may provide dual use in case the restroom facilities lack proper supplies.
Think of the different things you may encounter on the way home.
Every city and its facilities are different.
Multipurpose tools are available at most sporting goods or camping stores.
The one shown here has pliers, which can be very handy.
Add a all purpose pocket tool or Swiss Army knife . There are too many ways to use one of these to begin to list them all.
Hydrate and nourish ! Water is heavy to carry but you will need to have plenty available.
You'll also need high calorie snacks.
Keep at least one sealed bottle of water in your bag, pack more if you can stand the weight.
Refillable bottles as often as you safely can in an emergency.
Pack granola bars , protein bars, etc. that are high in calories and carbohydrates and store well long term.
Food is not only necessary for energy, it can be great for morale.
Dried fruit is also an excellent option.
Peanut butter (assuming you're not allergic to peanuts) comes in handy tubes, is an excellent source of protein, and does not require refrigeration or cooking.
If your children are at a nearby day care or you will be evacuating with them you should bring enough food and water for them as well.
It's better to have too much than too little.
You can always give some away.
Many local radio stations switch to emergency programming during an emergency.
Tune in ! Look for a small, battery operated FM transistor radio for your bag.
These can be found in discount stores or electronic stores for minimal investment.
All local radio stations will begin emergency broadcasting if there is an emergency in your area.
Make sure it has fresh batteries and is turned off before adding it to your bag.
Add a luggage tag with your name and contact information to your bag.
If possible, add some form of identification inside your bag such as an old employee ID. You may have left behind your handbag.
Tape an extra house key into the bottom of the bag underneath the cardboard bottom (with your money).
If you leave a house key, don't add anything to identify it as such.
Even better, hang a combination lockbox from your home door (if allowed;) with a spare key in it.
These are $30 at a hardware store and also come in handy anytime you or a family member accidentally lock yourself out or if you need to call a neighbor to enter your home when you are away, and you won't need to risk losing a spare stored elsewhere.
An additional advantage is that if you don't carry a spare key in your emergency kit, you can put your address on a luggage/ID tag attached to it.
A spare car key could also be helpful depending on your situation (or in a magnetic wheel-well box - these really work!).
Resist the urge to tap into your bag for a bottle of water, band-aid, etc. Keep the kit intact and only open it to check medication expiration dates, check or replace batteries or replace dated food.
Everything you need will fit easily in a back pack.
If you live in colder climates you can add additional supplies or change your pack for the seasons.
Pack your bag and store it in a locker , under your desk, in a filing cabinet nearby, or somewhere else it can be grabbed in a hurry.
If in doubt, grab it.
Take it for fire drills and other alarms.
Keep it handy when news has reached you of an emergency in your city.
You may not realize you are in a evacuation situation until you've been separated from your kit.
In large cities, earthquake or tornado prone areas, and large office buildings, it is wise to be a little paranoid.
Check the perishables (batteries, food, and first aid items) for expiration, leaking, or borrowing.
Verify that maps and phone numbers are all up-to-date.
Check for brittle gloves, missing items, operation electronics, and anything else that could go wrong that you wouldn't want to face in an emergency.
Send an email to your home computer with a list of items you'll need to restock it, or print your list.
You may not remember once you leave the office.