you.Develop a morning ritual.
Greet each morning with a ritual.
Try this one, suggested by the Dalai Lama : Today I am fortunate to have woken up, I am alive, I have a precious human life, I am not going to waste it.
I am going to use all my energies to develop myself, to expand my heart out to others, to achieve enlightenment for the benefit of all beings, I am going to have kind thoughts towards others, I am not going to get angry or think badly about others, I am going to benefit others as much as I can.
Then, when you ve done this, try one of the practices below.
Practice empathy.
The first step in cultivating compassion is to develop empathy for your fellow human beings.
Many of us believe that we have empathy, and on some level nearly all of us do.
But many times we are centered on ourselves and we let our sense of empathy get rusty.
Try this practice: Imagine that a loved one is suffering.
Something terrible has happened to him or her.
Now try to imagine the pain they are going through.
Imagine the suffering in as much detail as possible.
After doing this practice for a couple of weeks, you should try moving on to imagining the suffering of others you know, not just those who are close to you.
This means that you should experience the other persons suffering or emotions from that persons frame of reference, meaning as if you are in that persons shoes.
To keep empathy from turning into sympathy , keep your focus on the other person, rather than allowing your empathy to shift your focus to your own experience and memory of suffering.
[2]
Step: Just like me, this person is seeking happiness in his/her life.
Step: Just like me, this person is trying to avoid suffering in his/her life.
Step: Just like me, this person has known sadness, loneliness and despair.
Step: Just like me, this person is seeking to fill his/her needs.
Step: Just like me, this person is learning about life.
Practice relief of suffering . Once you can empathize with another person, and understand his humanity and suffering, the next step is to want that person to be free from suffering.
This is the heart of compassion actually the definition of it.
Try this exercise: Imagine the suffering of a human being you ve met recently.
Now imagine that you are the one going through that suffering.
Reflect on how much you would like that suffering to end.
Reflect on how happy you would be if another human being desired your suffering to end, and acted upon it.
Open your heart to that human being and if you feel even a little that you d want their suffering to end, reflect on that feeling.
That s the feeling that you want to develop.
With constant practice, that feeling can be grown and nurtured.
A study suggests that the more you meditate on compassion, the more your brain reorganizes itself to feel empathy towards others.
[4]
Practice the act of kindness . Now that you ve gotten good at the fourth practice, take the exercise a step further.
Imagine again the suffering of someone you know or met recently.
Imagine again that you are that person, and are going through that suffering.
Now imagine that another human being would like your suffering to end perhaps your mother or another loved one.
What would you like for that person to do to end your suffering?
Now reverse roles: you are the person who desires for the other person s suffering to end.
Imagine that you do something to help ease the suffering, or end it completely.
Once you get good at this stage, practice doing something small each day to help end the suffering of others, even in a tiny way.
Even a smile, or a kind word, or doing an errand or chore, or just talking about a problem with another person.
Practice doing something kind to help ease the suffering of others.
When you are good at this, find a way to make it a daily practice, and eventually a throughout-the-day practice.
Move beyond to practice compassion for those who mistreat us.
The final stage in these compassion practices is to not only want to ease the suffering of those we love and meet, but even those who mistreat us.
When we encounter someone who mistreats us, instead of acting in anger, withdraw.
Later, when you are calm and more detached, reflect on that person who mistreated you.
Try to imagine the background of that person.
Try to imagine what that person was taught as a child.
Try to imagine the day or week that person was going through, and what kind of bad things had happened to that person.
Try to imagine the mood and state of mind that person was in the suffering that person must have been going through to mistreat you that way.
And understand that their action was not about you, but about what they were going through.
Now think some more about the suffering of that poor person, and see if you can imagine trying to stop the suffering of that person.
And then reflect that if you mistreated someone, and they acted with kindness and compassion toward you, whether that would make you less likely to mistreat that person the next time, and more likely to be kind to that person.
Once you have mastered this practice of reflection, try acting with compassion and understanding the next time a person mistreats you.
Do it in little doses, until you are good at it.
Practice makes perfect.
It will take time to manage your emotions to the extent that you can practice full compassion, but the following techniques will help; in addition, people who practiced them in a study produced 100 percent more DHEA, which is a hormone that counteracts the aging process, and 23 percent less cortisol the stress hormone.
[5]
Cut-through: Observe your feelings, focusing on your heart.
Pretend you're someone outside of the situation, giving yourself advice like "Relax, it's no big deal."
Imagine your negative feelings getting absorbed and diffused by your heart.
This will help you transform rather than repress your negative feelings.
[6]
Heart lock-in: Quiet your mind and focus your attention on your heart.
Tap into feelings that you have towards someone or something you love easily, and try to stay with that feeling for ten or fifteen minutes.
Then imagine sending those feelings to yourself and others.
You may also want to read How to Forgive.