available.Take a picture of your property before the main landscaping.
As a tip: develop it in a local photo station.
Doing this, you can assess the types of plants or flowers you want to buy or if you can plant a tree in your property, or add hardscapes.
On the back of your photo, write the scale of your property to keep a measuring guide so your yard elements won t overshadow other elements.
Consider the basic elements of landscape design :
Scale
Color
Form/texture
Line/focal point
Include these elements of landscape design in both softscape and hardscape (please see the end note for definition) .
Think of your backyard or front yard like any other art form, such as a canvas.
Measure the scale of your landscape to determine which other elements you will incorporate.
What is the scale of your property?
Does your house fit well on your yard s land size?
Recognize that the color element is, in fact, your theme.
If you feel like doing a spring or summer theme, it does not matter.
The objective of color element in landscape design is to create a unifying family of colors that are perfect for your family s preference but still aesthetic.
Some families preference is verdant, others niche it with flowers, and others specifically the uptown neighborhood boast it by landscaping it with bridges, water fountains, or mini ponds.
These hardscape structures cannot be considered a color element but a form and texture element.
Bring in those colors that are complementing to the architecture.
This is where the form and the texture elements come in.
The forms and texture that I emphasize on this matter are the plants, the lawn, your housing architecture, and your fencing.
If you are to put forms and textures in your landscape, make it a point to not overdo it.
You don t want to turn your house into a rain forest, right -- or not unless you intend to?
Your landscape should complement your house and create a focal point to do so.
Consciously observe the line and focal point pertaining to eye level and the flow it goes through governed by the arrangement of your softscape or hardscape.
Eye movement is unconsciously influenced by the way plant groupings fit or flow together, both on the horizontal and vertical planes.
The focal point is the center of visual attention, often different from the physical center of the work.
You can make a fountain your focal point or other hardscape forms, which is essentially the trend in gardening industry.
Customize your landscape according to your pleasure and/or what you like.
Yard landscaping is a depiction of scenery you want to have in your own property.
In doing so, it requires proper planning, designing and managing.