family.Consider your decision to elope and make sure that you are doing this for the right reasons.
Yes, there are plenty of people who get married in Vegas in the heat of the moment, but if you don't consider your decision carefully, you'll likely regret it.
Even if you plan your elopement in advance, understand that some of your family and friends may be hurt by your decision.
If they see you are 100% committed to your partner and your decision and that eloping was what you truly wanted, it will definitely make it easier.
Find a place to get married.
With so many places to get married in Las Vegas, you may find it hard to choose one.
You can have a simple civil ceremony at the office of the Clark County Commissioner of Civil Marriages, or you can go to a church or wedding chapel.
The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority's website lists 49 licensed wedding chapels, and you can browse them all or search by location.
You can also look up "Weddings" in the Yellow Pages of the Las Vegas phone book or do your own internet search.
While you can always find someplace to get married on a moment's notice, you should reserve a date and time if you have want to elope at a specific site, since that garden gazebo chapel you want may be booked way in advance.
Consider what you want.
How traditional of a ceremony do you want?
How about one officiated by Elvis impersonators?
How about a ceremony at a national park?
Be sure to compare prices, and make sure you know what you're paying for.
Some wedding packages may also include extras like photography and flowers, while some ministers require an additional payment.
The Commissioner of Civil Marriages office, atS.
3rd St., performs civil ceremonies from 8 AM to 10 PM daily, including on weekends and holidays.
No appointment is necessary, and you'll rarely need to wait longer than an hour.
A witness is required, but if you don't have one you can usually get a member of another couple to be your witness if you'll be their witness.
Pick out your outfits and accessories to wear on the day.
Some chapels provide formal wear, but in general you will need to pick out what you want to wear just as you would for any other wedding.
Keep in mind that some chapels only allow formal weddings, while in others, anything goes.
Research and plan for other essentials, such as cake , hair, nails, makeup, etc. Do as much of your planning in advance as possible if you want to have a special ceremony.
Some packages take care of everything, but if you need to make arrangements on your own, the chapel or the Las Vegas tourism bureau will be able to assist you.
Get a marriage license . Obtaining a marriage license is particularly easy in Nevada.
No blood test is required, and there is no waiting period.
You can download and print the marriage license application from the Clark County Marriage Bureau's website , but you must bring it to their office in person.
Go to the Marriage Bureau's office at 201 Clark Ave. Both the prospective bride and groom must appear.
The office is open from 8 AM to midnight daily, including weekends and holidays.
Keep in mind that you may have to wait an hour or more on busy holidays.
The Clark County Marriage Bureau also has offices in Mesquite and Laughlin.
The hours for these offices vary by day, and they are both closed on holidays.
Submit two marriage license applications.
Each person must fill submit a license application.
It is a simple, one-page form.
The license fee is $(only one fee must be paid per couple) and must be paid in cash.
Bring photo identification with you to verify your age.
If you've been married before, your former spouse must either be deceased or you must be legally divorced in order to get a marriage license.
If you've been divorced, you will need to provide the date and location where the divorce decree was issued, but you need not bring a copy of the decree itself.
Only a couple consisting of a male and a female can get a marriage license in Nevada.
Same-sex weddings are performed, but are not legally recognized by the state of Nevada.
If either the bride or groom is a minor (or 17 years old), a parent or legal guardian must come to the Marriage Bureau office to consent to the marriage.
An original or certified birth certificate showing the parent's name, or a certified copy of the court-issued guardianship papers, must accompany the application.
Get married at the location of your choice.
Once you have marriage license, you have one year in which to get married.
Bring your license to the Commissioner of Civil Marriages or the chapel of your choice, and enter wedded bliss.
Get your marriage certificate.
Your marriage certificate should be available in 2-11 days.
You can pick it up at the Clark County Clerk's office, or you can obtain it by mail.
The fee is $10.