AccessSet the date, keeping it quiet from family and friends, or clue them in to the news if it isn t meant as a secret.
Gather legal documents required by your state for obtaining your marriage license -- birth certificates, blood test results (if applicable) and previous divorce decree papers.
Obtain the marriage license far enough in advance of the elopement date to account for any required waiting period.
Consider your budget , assessing your available funds for items like flowers , special clothing, plane tickets and photographer.
Decide on the location of the elopement ceremony.
If can be local or a distant honeymoon destination.
Gather two witnesses and a justice of the peace or minister for a brief ceremony in the office of a judge or justice of the peace , at city hall, the courthouse or a small chapel.
You can be back at work the next day if having a ceremony that is quiet and unobtrusive to your lives best fits your lifestyle.
Choose a location that holds sentimental meaning to both of you -- the playground where you both played as kids, the produce section of the neighborhood grocery where you met , or on the courtyard of your college campus where you walked to class.
These are all inexpensive, easy-in-easy-out locations for a quick but special elopement.
The iconic Las Vegas offers many wedding chapels and just about any costume and vehicle to rent for your special day or night.
Elope in a grand way, whisking your family and friends away to a secret destination where you allow a planner to handle the details.
While official weddings are also done this way, the spontaneity of it all classifies it more as an elopement where you involve many witnesses for an impromptu celebration.
Host a backyard barbeque to celebrate the nuptials with those in your lives, surprising them with the announcement on napkins, signs or during a special toast.
Plan an intimate dinner party or cocktail gathering to announce your marriage.
Have a trusted friend plan a housewarming or money tree come-and-go that family and friends can attend to celebrate your new marriage.