lifeDraw a roughly square outline of your bedroom on a piece of paper.
The wall that has the primary entrance to your room in it should be the bottom line of the square.
Divide the square into nine equal squares , three rows of 3 squares each.
Start with the lowest row of squares, that describes the areas when you first walk into your bedroom.
The far left corner of the room when you first enter is the area of Knowledge.
The center square relates to Career, and the right-hand square is Helpful People/Travel.
Now look at the central row of squares, that describes the middle of your bedroom.
The far left square relates to Family/Health.
The central square is the Tao, or Center, and the right-hand square is Creativity/Children.
Look at the top row of squares.
The far left square relates to Wealth, the central square to Fame/Reputation, and the far right square to Relationships/Romance.
Your layout should look something like this:
Wealth-Fame/Reputation-Relationships/Romance
Family/Health-Tao-Creativity/Children
Knowledge-Career-Helpful People/Travel
Knowledge: Bookcase, books, tools for self-development
Career: Mirrors or water-related items, images to support your career goals
Helpful People/Travel: Pictures of your helpers
Family/Health: Family photos, heirlooms, plants
Creativity/Children: Art supplies, artwork, computer
Wealth: Money, jewelry, fish, fountains, anything red, purple or gold
Fame/Reputation: Candles, awards, plants, anything red, orange or purple
Relationships/Romance: Round or oval mirrors, anything pink, pictures of loved ones, paired objects (like two candlesticks or two crystals)
Choose the right colors to use.
Color is a very important part of feng shui.
It is one of the easiest ways to shift the energy in your space with Feng Shui.
It represents Ying and Yang.
Each color is an expression of one of the Five Feng Shui Elements: Fire, Earth, Metal, Water, and Wood.
The elements are used in specific areas according to the feng shui energy map of your space, or Bagua.
Choose the Feng Shui colors according to the energy you need and bring them into your space with the wall color, art, photography, or various decor items.
Color is like music, nourishing and uplifting, and the more colors you harmoniously absorb throughout the day, the higher your sense of well-being is. Do not be afraid to bring vibrant colors into your space as color is light, and light is our number one nutrient.
Include fire - passion and high energy.
A balanced Feng Shui Fire element in your space will bring a supporting energy in all your career efforts and will help you achieve recognition.
Fire is the energy of the South
Fire energy is also recommended in the Northeast and Southwest feng shui areas of your space.
Feng Shui fire element colors are:
Red
Orange
Purple
Pink
Strong Yellow
Include colors for earth - nourishment and stability.
A strong and harmonious Feng Shui Earth element in your home will help create stability, nourishment and protection for all your relationships.
Earth is the Feng Shui element of Northeast and Southwest.
It is also the element of Center of your home.
Feng Shui Earth element colors are:
Light Yellow
Beige
Include metal - clarity and preciseness.
Feng Shui metal element brings the qualities of sharpness, precision, clarity and efficiency; its balanced presence will help you live with clarity and lightness.
Metal is the Feng Shui element of West and Northwest.
Metal element is also good to use in the North area of your home or office.
Feng Shui metal element colors are:
Gray
White
Use water - ease, freshness, and abundance.
A harmonious Feng Shui Water element will bring a refreshing energy of calm, ease, purity and freshness.
Water is also the ancient symbol of abundance, thus a potent Feng Shui cure.
Water is the Feng Shui element of North.
Water element is also good to use in the East and Southeast areas of your space.
Feng Shui water element colors are:
Blue
Black
Lush and healing, the Feng Shui Wood element will bring the energy of health, vitality and growth.
It is also an expression of abundance, thus an ancient Feng Shui cure for wealth and prosperity.
Wood is the Feng Shui element of the East and Southeast areas of your space.
Wood element is also good to use in the South.
Feng Shui wood element colors are:
Brown
Green
Have a good headboard.
The best feng shui headboards are the ones that are solid and made from wood, or the upholstered ones, as they have a very good combination of solid, but also gentle and supporting feng shui energy for you and your bedroom.
While you are drifting off to sleep, your body is going intro an extra busy energy repair work on many levels.
Subconsciously, your head needs good backing, protection and support, just like your back needs it when you are seating in a chair for extended periods of time.
Get a good mattress.
There are a variety of mattresses on the market, choose wisely and invest in the one that will promote best sleep and relaxation.
The better you sleep at night, the better your health during the day, this is really simple.
Be mindful of good feng shui and do not buy used mattresses - you never know what energy they have accumulated from previous owners.
Make sure it is a good height.
To allow for a balanced feng shui energy flow under the bed you need to have your bed at a reasonable height above the floor level.
Generally, the beds that have built-in storage drawers underneath to help you with storage solutions are considered bad feng shui beds.
Why?
Because the energy needs to circulate around your body when you sleep, which is not possible if the space underneath the bed is blocked.
Place the bed in the area further from the door or diagonally from the door, but not in line with the door.
In other words, you want to be able to see the door while in bed, but not be aligned with the door.
Be it the bedroom door, the door to the balcony/patio, the bathroom door or your closet doors, you do not want your bed in line with any of the doors in your bedroom.
Have a good supporting wall behind your bed.
In addition to a good headboard, you always want to have a solid wall behind your bed.
When you sleep under the window, your personal energy tends to get weaker in time, as it has neither proper support, not protection.
Place grounding and balanced energy (e.g. nightstands) on both sides of the bed.
Mirror facing the bed
You probably know that a mirror facing the bed is a big feng shui red flag, or a feng shui "NO!" for a good bedroom.
Either a mirror from a closet door, a mirror from a piece of furniture or a free standing mirror - you do not want a mirror to reflect your bed.
Beams, ceiling fan or a chandelier above your bed
The only thing you want above your bed when you sleep is a soft canopy.
This is about it.
Nothing heavy, nothing hanging, please do not hang chimes and bells above your head, this is bad feng shui.
Sharp angles (sha chi, or poison arrows) pointing at you when you sleep
Be it from the nearby nightstands, from a further away piece of furniture, such as a chest of drawers, or from a sharp wall corner - be sure to neutralize all the sharp energy aiming at your bed.
Bed under sloped ceiling
When you spend time under a sloped ceiling, your energy is being heavily constricted and is under constant pressure.
As nighttime is the only time when your body can do the deep work of regenerating itself, sleeping under a sloped ceiling restricts this work, thus one's health may suffer.
Sleeping in a bed under a sloped ceiling can also contribute to emotional instability and low energy.
A bed with access from only ones side limits the flow of energy to your bed.
While it looks like all is quiet and you are sleeping, your body is busy doing a lot of work and is looking to use all the energy it can to improve your health.
When the flow of energy to your bed is restricted, your body does not receive the optimum help it needs.
In addition, if you are in an intimate love relationship, having a bed with access from only one side can limit the open flow of communication between partners.