awayGather all important information such as a will and death certificate as these documents may help with your search for information.
Search all recent financial information, including bill payments, cancelled checks and bank statements.
If your loved one made monthly payments to a life insurance company, it is likely that you will be able to find a record of those payments.
Request financial records from banking institutions and/or credit card companies in case the deceased used an alternative method to manage payment of an insurance premium.
Check safe deposit boxes for important information and insurance policy details.
Examine tax records for evidence that your relative paid annual interest on a policy.
Ask employers (present and former) whether your loved one purchased life insurance as part of a company benefits package.
Find out whether the deceased had a lawyer who may have assisted in the development of a life insurance policy.
Contact relatives and friends that may have been confidants of the deceased to see whether they have any knowledge of a possible life insurance policy.
Keep a checklist of all information and the results of your search to enable you to stay organized as you encounter new information.
Research probate court records to gain information about your loved one s estate . A life insurance policy may show as an asset if the property is in probate.
Speak with the relative s insurance agent.
If the person purchased a car insurance policy through a vendor, they may have life insurance with the same company.
Purchase a record search from the Medical Information Bureau (MIB), which maintains a database of information about institutions that inquire about individual s medical records.
Contact the local government s unclaimed property division to inquire about the possibility that your relative had an unclaimed life insurance policy.
Query the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators free online search database to determine whether they have any record of an insurance policy for your relative.
Find an insurance professional or service that can create a system to contact numerous insurance agencies to inquire about a possible insurance policy for your loved one.
There are services available online that can assist with this process.