out.Put your children first.
Take into account the age, number of children and the relationships you and your spouse have with them.
If your children are pre-teen and older, they may be brought into the proceedings to declare with whom they wish to live.
If you don t have children or they are grown, you won t need to be as concerned about finding an attorney specializing in family law.
Consider your financial situation -- shared bank and investment accounts, property ownership and other joint assets.
If you have any financial holdings, you ll need to find an attorney well-versed in laws governing finance.
While you re learning how to find a good divorce attorney, you may decide you don t each need separate attorneys.
If your relationship is amicable and you foresee comfortable and friendly negotiations, consider an attorney skilled at mediation who will draw up a divorce decree in both of your interests.
If you are seeking a divorce from an abusive spouse - physical or verbal - you will want to seek an attorney who specializes in women s rights.
Talk to friends who have been where you are to learn about their experiences with their attorneys.
Most people who have gone through a divorce won t shy away from relating their stories.
Some friends will openly discuss finances -- the consultation fee they paid and what the attorney charges per hour.
Ask specific questions about your friends experiences communicating with the attorney.
Were emails and phone calls promptly returned?
Was the staff friendly and knowledgeable, an important factor should the attorney be unreachable when you have a question?
How was the attorney in court did he or she seem comfortable communicating with the other attorneys and the judge?
Were all terms clearly spelled out and all questions answered prior to the attorney requiring a retainer?
Ask your friends if they would select this same attorney if they were in the situation again.
Call your top 2 or 3 choices to set up a consultation.
Be prepared to pay for the consultation, although some do offer a free initial consultation.
Jot down basic notes about your marriage beforehand.
Compile a folder of legal documents to take along, including the original marriage license, your driver s license, tax records and such.
Include proof of infidelity if this is the basis of the divorce, and you have this kind of documentation.
Go alone to the initial consultation.
This may seem obvious but even if you are considering using the attorney for mediation, the initial meeting should be done by the spouse who plans to go on record as the petitioner for the divorce.
Many attorneys will charge a set fee up front, based on information they have collected from you.
This is often a significant sum of money that their office hours are charged against.