itStart early.
Aim to be a well rounded achiever A slacker who decides to start making good grades late in high school probably won't be admitted.
You should have a consistent history of high scholastic achievement.
Cultivate extracurricular activities from as early as elementary school , particularly ones that sound intellectual, generous, leadership-oriented or otherwise appealing to colleges.
Try to find activities related to subjects about which you are passionate: you'll find it easier to work them aggressively and build titles, recognition, and references.
Start focusing in on your favorite interests before entering high school.
There are sometimes exceptions as colleges also love to see improvement.
If your problems were due to circumstances beyond your control, you could attach a supplement to your application about them and how you overcame or succeed in spite of them.
Challenge yourself.
Seek out the most demanding and rigorous opportunities at your school, especially in the academic arena.
It's often preferable to do well in a challenging program than to be exceptional in an average one.
If your school offers advanced courses, especially those for which college credit is offered, an Ivy League school will expect you to have taken them.
The schools don't see your teachers, just your transcript and letters from a few you get to choose.
Look for classes that will be recognized as difficult, preferably without overly difficult grading.
It's most helpful to take difficult classes and work hard in subjects you expect to continue with in college, because they'll also make good grades there easier.
Excel.
In an applicant pool where a significant portion of students are valedictorians , and where students with perfect SAT scores are regularly rejected, you have to find a way to stand out.
Think on a national or international scale; don't just limit yourself to the opportunities in your home town.
Spending a summer helping raise funds to build a school in Peru will mean more to them than raising funds for your local church.
Having a GPA in the top% of your class is essential, and being ranked among the top few students dramatically betters your chances.
Standardized testing, a nerve-wracking reality of college admissions, must also be exemplary.
Aim for attaining at least a(out of a possible 800) points on each section of the SAT (and on individual SA TII tests), or a composite of 30 on the ACT for a reasonable chance of being admitted.
Bringing these scores up to 750+ on each SAT section, or a 33+ composite ACT, will give you solid scores that need not be improved.
Do not repeat the test more than three times.
According to Chuck Hughes, a former senior admissions officer at Harvard, the admission panel will notice, and your repeated attempts to get a high score may come off as too focused on scores.
[1] Get good before you take it.
Take a test-preparation class or, to save money if you can keep focused on your own, get a few books and practice, practice, practice.
Speed and accuracy with a few kinds of problems and checklist-graded writing requires special skills you won't quite get learning how to do many kinds of things in school.
Start preparing early and keep at it diligently until you can solve the problems without much thinking.
Remember, one or two admission tests are worth about as much to colleges as most of the rest of your classes put together.
(The colleges can't really help this.
Your teachers may be brilliant and difficult graders, but they can't practically tell.)
Regarding extracurriculars, Ivies would rather see an applicant who is regionally--if not nationally--recognized in one or two areas, instead of one who is merely "very good" in a myriad of activities.
Hughes says: "It's great to be good at a bunch of things, but colleges look for students who do one to two things exceptionally well."
Lead . In the areas where you excel, look for opportunities to take on additional recognition and responsibility as a leader.
This can range from becoming class president to cheerleading captain to an officer for a club you participate in.
Take your job as a leader seriously, as the lessons you learn in this role can be the experiences that set you apart from the crowd when you write your essay or get interviewed.
Research schools.
Find out whether the research opportunities, location, social life, students , professors , climate, dormitories , food services, etc. are things you would enjoy for four years.
Visit campus, talk with professors and current students.
Get a sense of what your life there would be like.
Also, try to see if you can spend a weekend there.
Several colleges offer that option.
Remember, there are no guarantees in admissions and few in financial aid, much is left to chance, and the cost of applications is insignificant in the scheme of things.
So apply to many schools you think you might like to attend.
Emphasize academics and just check that the other aspects will be OK for a few years.
The Ivies tend to sacrifice things like athletic excellence for teaching, and you should, too, if you want to learn any better than someone competent with a few years' experience could teach you anywhere.
There are hundreds of cheaper schools in better locations with more time for socializing.
Polish your application.
What many applicants do not realize is that high grades and test scores will not guarantee admission: they merely "get you through" the first round of rejections.
After that, the college will examine what kind of person you are, which is expressed through one or more essays, teacher and counselor recommendations, sometimes an interview and, in a few cases, a peer recommendation.
Seek out teachers who know you well, have a favorable opinion of you (hopefully they all do!), and seem willing and able to write a great recommendation on your behalf.
Don't be presumptuous, but some like if you can make their job easier with a discussion or a few notes for starting points on what to say about you.
Begin working on your essays long before the deadline, so that you will have sufficient time to revise them.
Ask adults familiar with prestigious universities' culture (your school counselor, at least) for advice on what kinds of things from your experience to write about and how to best present them to the school.
This can help with interviews, too.
Alumni interviews range from relatively nonchalant (e.g. Dartmouth) to make-or-break interrogative ordeals (e.g. Harvard)--dress respectfully, be expectant of questions your interviewer may ask, but above all, just be yourself - or a subtly more mature version!
Find someone to give you practice interviews.
If they're familiar with the process, great; if not, at least they'll help you stay relaxed and articulate.
Sit back, and wait for the results ! Most Ivy League decisions arrive in early April, or can be checked online the first of the month.
A few schools will send out "likely letters" to their more desirable prospects 1-2 months earlier to informally notify them of their acceptance.
If you have been accepted, congratulations!
Do not , under any circumstances, allow your grades to significantly slip or break the law--students have been dropped by schools to which they were admitted for these very reasons.
It's only two more months, you can do it!
If you have been waitlisted, your chances of being accepted off the wait list are quite slim--move on to your next choice.
If you have been rejected, you have hopefully applied to other schools (most of which will offer a perfectly good education).
Remember that a rejection from an Ivy does not mean you are a lesser person by any means.
Admissions at this level is a crapshoot, with a bit of cliquishness thrown in.
[] Students who may have been accepted in previous years can be rejected this year (and vice versa).
Studies have shown that students accepted to Ivies that attended other schools were just as successful in life as their Ivy counterparts; the same holds true for those with the qualifications to attend an Ivy who just happened to be rejected.
Continue doing your best, and your efforts will be rewarded in other ways.
If you do outstanding work at a second tier school, you can try transferring to an Ivy after a year or two.
You might not receive credit toward graduation for the work done at the other school.
You will probably be able to skip repeating introductory courses, but you might still have to take four years of courses, which means padding things out with more advanced courses or with courses you're interested in outside your major.
Your degree is from the school where you finish, not where you begin.
Some state colleges guarantee transfer admission to community-college students meeting grade requirements there.
This can save you a bundle and even let you get in to a prestigious state college - not quite the Ivies, but close - which might refuse to admit you directly.
Another option is grad school.
By doing outstanding work at an undergraduate program and performing very well on the appropriate admissions exam (e.g., GRE, LSAT) you may be able to be admitted to an Ivy League graduate program.
In addition to providing excellent opportunities for scholarship, many of these programs offer opportunities offset tuition and other expenses via teaching or research assistantships.
By the time you reach graduate school, you'll have the background knowledge to ask the hard questions the Ivies' professors might be able to answer better than others.
A prestigious graduate school can do much more to increase income in a highly-paid profession than a prestigious undergraduate program (just the basics, at best).
For grad schools that focus heavily on grades, a slightly less-prestigious undergraduate program with generous grading might actually improve your chances of admission over a little more amorphous prestige and the good grades you'll manage to claw much tougher competition.