vote.Define your position on the issues and support the legislators who most closely represent your views.
You will not see yourself represented well - unless enough people support, influence and help the right people into positions like city council, commissioners, district courts, legislators, elected judges -not just the executives (the mayor, county manager, district attorney or county judge's office, governor or even president)!
Be a poll watcher which is an election voting observer.
Sometime well before elections, contact the party or candidate that you support and volunteer to be a poll-watcher , if this is legal in your local election process.
You would receive instructions about the duties such as watching out for wrong deeds like electioneering (standing between incoming voters and the polling booths with propaganda of any kind).
You would not interfere but only observe and report to designated authorities.
You should receive some identification for that candidate or party and the information about who you would call or contact, if you believe there are irregularities or lawbreaking in the polling place.
Participate in voting-place party meetings.
These meetings take place for the purpose of deciding what will be on the agenda in the coming year, etc. They are often set up to be held at the end of the party primary-day so be at the polling place just before the poll closes to be admitted at each community voting place.
(Some states use "townhall or caucus "--small convention style meetings--instead of individually balloting, so find out what time to be there to participate.)
At the primary precinct meeting your polling place officers are elected, as well as delegates to the county meeting (at the county meeting they elect county party officials and also state convention delegates, etc.) and your issues (initiatives) are sent to the next level to be agreed upon or dropped.
Local vote counting.
In many locales, the voters can wait or come back on the actual election day to the polling place just before the poll closes on that election evening and go to the meeting to watch the vote count, talk, and learn about the procedures and opportunities to get involved now or for next time.
Contribute to the local, county or state elections in many ways, as you donate, post signs, stickers, talk, etc.
Become a better speaker/speech writer and practice on smaller groups before you move to larger responsibilities.
To run for political office you must register with authorities for the office that you want to run for, then organize with a chairperson and treasurer and file these papers with the proper authority, learn about financial reporting , keep records and meet with interested people who can help or donate.
Plan for campaign literature and a website : Design and get brochures, handbills, sign and posters.
Plan for using a website; perhaps your county or state political party has a website on which you can get a webpage for your use.
Be involved in local one-on-one by putting a personal face on the issues and talking with others to refine ideas, to guide and strengthen good values in your workplace, school, and home area - knocking on doors, registering new voters, phoning or helping with mailings.
Volunteer, support and vote for the values most important to you.
With individual work and effort, you reflect your values in local politics.
Don't fear, even if the opposition is elected.
There will be another election soon, and you can try again.
Don't be disillusioned by politicians who may be romancing you and other members of some organizations, and clubs to further their own influence, but not pressing for "real improvements."
Following a person is not going to change the core of your existence, but if you begin to suspect this is happening with someone you supported, admit you backed the wrong horse and withdraw your support immediately.
The wrong person in an elected position can do great harm.
Avoid breaking promises by not making promises for "changes" that are virtually impossible - things that you actually do not explain very well.
Then when elected don't just say: "Oh it is worse than I knew, and we can not do those things right away.
We'll do what we can."
Live by what you say you believe knowing that you will be judged accordingly by the electorate.
Setting the example you hope will become the ideal is all you can really do.
Don't engage in behaviors that, if discovered, will undermine all the work you (and others committed to the same cause) have done.