businessWhat kind of education are you seeking ? Do you want a degree or just to take few courses.
Local art centers offer a variety of inexpensive workshops where you can test your creativity.
However if you want to make a living with your skills you may want to enroll in a degree program.
They allow you to develop your technical and critical skills, as well as provide professional connections in your chosen field.
Decide which Art Schools you may want to attend.
You will need to research schools to find out what majors they offer.
The internet is one of the first places turn for information.
It may be hard to sort through all the information available.
However events like the National Performing and Visual Arts College Fairs [1] and National Portfolio Days [2] are great places to meet representatives and gain more in depth knowledge about a variety of institutions.
You may also want to start by asking your art teachers for suggestions.
Assemble a portfolio of your artwork.
Reputable art schools will require one.
The purpose of the portfolio is to help each school understand an applicant s artistic potential.
Therefore, portfolios are not always evaluated merely on the basis of demonstrated skill.
Students who have had significant access to studio art instruction are expected to show greater skill than those whose exposure to art training has been relatively modest.
[3] Some schools require students to submit work in specific mediums or draw specific items (Like the famous RISD bicycle requirement [4] ).
Other schools only require that students submit 20 pieces and leave the rest to them.
Be sure you are aware of the requirements for each school you apply to.
Do not submit reproductions of work by or based on work by other artists, nor drawings that you made from photographs or illustrations, they want to see your original ideas and execution that is not based upon other works.
Schedule and an interview, portfolio review and tour with your perspective schools.
High School Seniors typically do this between October and January.
Plan on what you are going to tell and show them.
Familiarize yourself with each school and prepare to ask informed questions.
Prepare your portfolio by selecting 15-25 of your strongest pieces for presentation.
You may also want to bring a sketchbook with you.
You don't need to purchase an expensive portfolio to display your work.
Just make sure your work is organized and presentable.
Avoid showing work that more than three years old.
Art Schools are not interested in work you did when you were in Middle School.
Show up on time.
Be thoughtful and polite when touring the school.
Art Schools provide an environment where students are free to explore self-expression to it's limit.
Be prepared to encounter art in the hallways or studios that challenges conventional values.
At your portfolio review be prepared to receive creative feedback about your work.
Show them your portfolio, and explain the details to them.
Talk about your process, ideas, and things that inspire you.
You may want to bring a pen and paper to write down suggestions or artists the reviewer thinks you should research.
Thank them for the interview, ask the reviewer for their contact information.
Make sure you have met all other requirements such as submitting SAT/ACT/TOFEL scores, writing a personal essay, and submitting your transcripts.