shower. :)Be Patient - The quicker you go the worse you get.
What some players tend to do is run out as soon as they get the chance to and try to get more kills sounds good, but at most times you will be anxious, frustrated and won't get as many kills as when you would just wait a little bit and start from scratch.
Do not quit - there was this one match in where someone started the match at one kill and five deaths then that person ended up with seven kills and seven deaths.
Moral of the story: you can start off bad but end up with a decent score, so don't quit.
Sniping - when sniping, aim for the chest area.
Even with recoil the bullet might hit you opponent in the head.
Find a secure area mainly in buildings and try to blend in with your environment so the enemy isn't able to see you.
Kiss the Cook - "Cook" Hold your grenades for at least 2 seconds before throwing.
Cook your grenades: if you know your about to come up on a group of enemies around the corner and you want to get some easy kills make sure you cook your grenades.
Most players by now are smart enough to move out of the way; hold your grenade for about 3 seconds under cover (don't try to cook it under fire) so they have no time to get out of the way.
Corners - watch out ! some people like to hide in corners and wait for you to come inside the room that they are in and finish you off, so watch it.
Helicopter - When enemy helicopter "chopper" arrives, try your best to take it out, even if you have a pistol give it a shot.
Make it first priority, but stay in a empty area because enemies can spot you and find out where you are, then you know what happens next.
Cars Tend to ummm blow up ! - stay away from cars.
one grenade from the enemy and you and the car are gone.
Take Cover - If you need to reload while in cover regain as much health as possible and then go out and strike back.
Accept - There are going to be some things you will have to accept like for example, the guy who uses a P90 and gets thirty something kills, or the fact that you shoot someone straight in the face and they DO NOT GO DOWN !
Switch it Up - Change your classes try different guns and see which one works.
Teamwork - It is possible to work as a team, even if there is no communication on your part.
If you are someone who rather not shout TOP LEFT or THEY'RE FLANKING.
For whatever reason it's cool don't worry about it.
There are plenty of things and ways that you can be effective without communication.
For example do not run out like a mad man, take your time, let your teammates pass, and wait your turn.
Or do not get in your teammates way while he is trying to snipe someone.
It is also important to stick with your team; it will pay off later.If your team splits up, then find cover or go around carefully by yourself or with a friend and try to pick the other enemy team off one by one.
Be a ninja - If you either crawl or crouch the enemy will most likely not see you on the radar and you can get close enough to finish your enemy.
A silencer on your gun prevents enemies from finding out where you are after you take a shot.
With UAV jammer you are not detected at all, so try it.
Camping - It is good to camp at times.
it saves you lots of stress, but stay mobile; do not stay still in one spot for too long.
Say you snipe someone, that person will at times spawn and then run straight for the spot you killed him from.
So MOVEEEEE.
A lot of people say things like "dude I hate campers" when they are using the P90(the easiest gun in the whole game along with the M16) let them talk and move on.
I'm Rick James - Enjoy Yourself.
Video games are made to have fun, don't get too angry over the lags or whatever it may be, let it go.
Grenades ! - Use them wisely, when not sure about a room being safe throw either a stun, flash,frag, or smoke grenade before entering just to be sure.
Radar - Keep your eye on the radar to spot enemy positions.
Stay Back Yo - If you are not doing so well focus on playing sneaky.
Play aggressive - Look for kills,kills at most times are not going to come to you.
Body - Aim at the body or legs to get most out of shots.
Sprinting - Only sprint when necessary not just to do it for example when you are trying to knife someone but not as soon you re spawn.
D over K - Deaths over kills.
Deaths are an important factor, so are kills but think about it during games the more you die the more points the other teams receive what looks better 30 & 30 or 11 & 4?
Claymores - either plant your own claymores, but none close to your position.
If an enemy throws a grenade towards your direction and lands near your claymore that is right beside you, that can be all it takes for your enemy to kill you.
Watch out for enemy claymores before entering a room or else BOOM!!!.
There goes _______________.
Bursts - Try to shoot in bursts of three or four at a time, they are more accurate and you save lots of ammo.
Shoot Ahead - of your enemy.
For example, if your enemy is moving from side to side then shoot just ahead of the way he is facing.
Sportsmanship - is very important either people remember you as the cool kid who didn't act insecure and give you good rep. Or they avoid you as much as possible.
Use what YOU feel like - who cares if someone calls you a "noob"in your heart if you do not feel as a noob then you are not one.
Uniforms - Memorize the different uniforms and keep them in mind.
Trash talkers - Once or maybe even often there are going to be some trash talkers,negative people, bullies, people that take the game too seriously and etc, instead of getting frustrated or maybe even quitting the match just wish them the best and move on.
Practice- makes perfect.
Here are a few quotes picked up from http://en.thinkexist.com/quotations/practice/ here they are: When you are not practicing, remember, someone somewhere is practicing, and when you meet him he will win or It's not necessarily the amount of time you spend at practice that counts; it's what you put into the practice.
Flank - It's easier to go around the enemy : If you have UAV or enemies are advancing on you use some footwork.
Take advantage when you are on an enemies flank or when they bunch up.
Instead of taking every enemy head on it's easier just to go around and surprise your enemy.
Mobile - Use your left stick to get of a precision shot rather than chasing the enemy around with your right stick.
Use your right stick to point in the enemies general direction once they're in your sites get the exact shot off with you're left stick.
This is because your left stick is much less sensitive than your right stick.
Plus this allows you to move a little while shooting instead of staying static.
I got this from the second website listed on tips.
Three is the magic number - It takes about three shots to kill an opponent.
Never Underestimate Competition - They are smarter than you think.
Here comes a bigger fish - There is always gonna be someone better in the smallest things, whether it be camping or getting kills so stay humble and play within your limits and to your strengths.
Give it 110 Percent - Try your best so therefore you would not have to wonder "what if" ?
Learn - From other players.
Follow them and see what they do in certain situations.
Don't hate appreciate - when someone is doing good be happy for them and after the game either if your team won or lost say "good game" or something like that.
Clans - if you want or if you think you are good enough you and your friends can form a "clan" and battle others clans just visit www.gamebattles.com for more info.
Head shots - When they(the enemy) don't see you, as fun as it is to knife em, aim at the head and shoot.
Free head shots.
As well try to aim a little higher when you can.
Hopefully, even if it has a small recoil, the recoil will make the gun shake upward giving you a head shot.
Be Aware - For enemy air strikes, helicopters and grenades dropped by either your teammate or your enemy.
Knifing - When knifing someone, jump to the side of enemy so you can avoid their shots and then stab.
Another good way is to stab the enemy in back.