show.Develop a plan.
No matter which steps you decide to implement below, everything is easier with a plan.
Getting a bartending job is no different.
Write down 5 places you want to work.
Get the contact info for the people who are doing the hiring at these five places.
Implement the steps below with these five people in mind.
Meet the right people.
It's all about who you know.
If you have a favorite watering hole, find out who the owner is and start talking him/her up.
Befriend the bartenders, barbacks, and cocktail waitresses, and let them know you're looking for a bartending job.
Tip well, go often, and generally be a happy, useful presence at the bar.
Observe bartenders in action.
There are little tricks to pouring a good beer, mixing drinks, and saving time behind the bar.
Watch how your mixer handles drink orders.
Most of it is not rocket science; the most commonly ordered drinks are liquor plus a mixer.
Buy drink manuals to learn about the more complex drinks and practice at home.
Consider whether you want to go to bartending school.
They'll teach you the basics and you'll have an opportunity to practice making drinks.
Make sure the school you choose has a real working bar and all real bartending equipment.
Bartending is a manual skill that requires speed and dexterity.
There is no substitute for hands on training.
Dress the part.
If you want a gig at a fancy restaurant, dress professionally.
If you want a job at a hip club, dress edgy.
If a dive bar gig is fine by you, dress tough.
Most bars are going for a certain look or image, whether they tell you that or not.
Look for charity guest bartending gigs.
Many big cities are now offering this option.
You pick a charity, promote the event, and bring your friends in.
In exchange, you and a couple friends get trained for the evening and get to mix drinks all night.
It's a great way to get some experience and make contacts.
If you impress the bar owner, it could lead to a job.
Write a great cover letter and resume.
Oftentimes a great cover letter and resume is enough to overcome a lack of experience.
Some establishments prefer to hire bartenders with no experience because they won't have any bad habits to break.
Experienced or not, the cover letter and resume need to be exciting and pop with personality.
A great personality and attitude will elevate you above the competition every time.