StrunkDecide if you are willing to commit yourself.You will be expected to work over 40 hours a week for some subjects, so make sure you are willing to dedicate yourself to the hard work.
Do not take 5 A levels for your final year.
Most colleges will assume you can only get 2 A's due to the work load and will not accept you based on this.
Unless you can show them you are extremely intelligent the odds are slightly against you.
GCSE grades are often used to distinguish between entrants due to the high number of As achieved at A level, Oxbridge are still unsure about the reliability of the A* at A level so you must have a strong GCSE profile, though 15 A* won't guarantee you a place you should have an A* in the subject you are taking and other related subjects.
Decide what you want to do.
This may sound obvious but if you are not 100% certain they will realize at the interview which will make them reluctant to take you.
You must know exactly why you want to take a course.
Also if you are uncertain whether you will enjoy the course don't take it.
The work load will put you off the course if it is not something you enjoy and you will end up bored for 3 years or dropping out.
Get good AS grades.
Without good AS grades they are unlikely to accept you.
If you do not get A's having B's and all your predicted grades as A may suffice.
Choose your college.
Read up about as many colleges as you can.
Online you can view the statistics of each college to see how many people applied and got in for each course.
Also check the college rankings, if you are confident you are clever enough apply for the top colleges or colleges that specialise in your course.
However if you are unsure go for one of the lower colleges or the one furthest from your course's department as they tend to be undersubscribed increasing your odds.
Cambridge is different to Oxford where most colleges specialise in a few subjects.
In Cambridge, almost all subjects are offered by all colleges making it more likely a course is undersubscribed - increasing your odds.
However if you are not intelligent they would rather be undersubscribed then have you.
Only take an open application if you are unsure or don't care what College you go to as after all Oxbridge is Oxbridge.
However if you are a female and take an open application there is about a 90% chance you will get into an all female college.
Personal Statement.
Make sure it is perfect.
Get several teachers to look over it and even get your friends to look over it too.
Make sure only to take the advice of experienced teachers though as they will know what Oxbridge want.
My suggested format is: Introduction about the subject, why you want to do it etc (show some knowledge of the course) Academic acheivement Non Academic achievement Extra curricular activites and hobbies Conclusion (include what you want to do after university, mainly about the subject).
Make sure you talk about what you do other then school as interviewers are told to look for hobbies.
This suggests you are smart enough to get A's and have free time which you can then give up when you get to university.
Also do not lie they will realise if they call you for an interview.
College response.
When the college sends you a request to submit some school work or written work.
Do not be late sending it back, put some extra time working on it to make it up to scratch (I spent two weeks working every evening writing my submission).
Make sure the piece you send has been marked if they ask for school work.
Interview If you are called for an interview they usually ask you to stay for a few nights, preparing is highly recommended.
There are courses held every year for students to prepare for the interview however these are normally extremely expensive sometimes costing 100's and unless you are really desperate are not worth it, it is better to get a teacher to give you a mock interview.
Normally they will ask you questions not in the syllabus for A level or stuff that you will cover next year, some colleges even ask you questions on subjects they wont expect you to know until studying at University.
So make sure you study in advance topics you will be covering next year and be prepared to answer questions that require 'independent thought.'
Every question you will be asked if you study at Oxbridge requires this and if you cannot think outside the box you are unlikely to get in.
For an essay based subject be prepared to argue for and against any question.
For a language degree be prepared to speak fluently in that language during the interview or try to translate a language you have never seen before.
For science based interviews be prepared to answer obscure questions such as estimate the number of molecules in your body.
Success.
If you get accepted this is not the end of the road.
If you do not study hard for your A levels they will not lower the requested grades for you.
They would rather offer that place to someone next year.
Once you are notified they have accepted you it then means you have about 6 months to go over all your A levels and make sure you can get A's.
Once you have congratulations you will be about to experience what hard work really is.
Just because you have been offered a place, does not mean that you will automatically get in.
Most offers will be conditional on you receiving certain grades.
The typical Oxford offer is AAA at A-level, but Cambridge offers from 2010 now usually include the new A* grade.