door.Be fussy.
Some would call this being discerning.
Buy something only if you absolutely love it.
In this way, you cut down on spontaneous shopping and shopping for the sake of it.
Finally, ask yourself whether or not you really need to buy the garment that you ve randomly plucked off the rack on your way to the food section?
Are you buying because you can, or because you really need another t-shirt?
Plan to keep your clothing for a while, and wear what you have.
Buying less guarantees you use fewer resources.
Buy organic and hemp . Cotton, despite the years of marketing as a clean and natural fabric, uses no less than a third of a pound of chemical fertilizers and pesticides in the production of one t-shirt.
Organic cotton and other fashion alternatives are now available.
Try the local variety stores first.
Read the labels.
Organic clothing can range from is 5% organic to 100%.
Look for local designers and look for hemp, organic cotton and other eco-choices.
Buy vintage.
The new term for used clothing is pretty trendy right now, particularly in places like the UK, Australia, US etc. where charity shops are a wonderful source of cheap, recycled clothing.
Whilst such stores are not big in some countries, there is the odd charity shop worth a visit.
Alternatively, get together with a group of friends and each bring 5 garments for a big " swap " session.
And look for consignment stores too.
These often have great designer bargains that let clothes have a new lease of life for a fraction of the original cost.
Recycle . Instead of throwing away, recycle your old clothes.
Some recycling organisations have a section for old clothes, and if they don t, then get your clothes back into circulation by donating them to a community, or resell them from your garage, sell them on the community exchange system or freecycle them.
Or completely remodel them into the latest fashion look!
(See How to Make a Whole New Wardrobe by Recycling Your Clothes )
Tweak it.
Is there anything in your wardrobe worth salvaging?
Get creative, transform old clothes and find new life for them.
Now called "a re-purposed garment" the trend to convert old clothing into new is fast replacing the need to buy new every season.
Here are some ideas:
How to Turn an Oversized T Shirt Into a Hot Mini Dress
How to Make a Baby Romper from a T Shirt
How to Make a Denim Skirt From Recycled Jeans
Look after it.
Once you ve bought a quality organic item, look after it.
Wash it carefully turn it inside out when it s drying in the hot sun, use the lowest temperature when washing, and use biodegradable detergents.
Sun-dry your garments and try not to dry-clean.
If you do have things to dry clean, look around for a dry cleaner in your area who uses newer, green methods.
If you re really concerned about going green and want to go the extra mile, wash your clothes in a pedal-powered washing spin dryer machine!