readyClear the area of all weeds, previous grass or other impediments.
Use a glyphosate indiscriminate herbicide to kill all signs of living plant life if needed.
If you have the time, it is a good idea to let the cleared area sit for a week and water it.
This will allow any dormant weed seeds to germinate allowing you the chance to kill them before your grass goes in.
Till your soil to aerate it and soften it.
You can till using a tiller or your shovel, depending on area size.
Now that the area is cleared and tilled, it needs to be properly graded.
Use a garden rake and level out the area.
Make sure there is a slight slope away from the house foundation, at least 1 inch per 10 feet.
Tilling brings a multitude of weed seeds to the surface that will sprout and compete with your new grass.
Prior to seeding, water the area frequently for 1-2 weeks and reapply an indiscriminate herbicide to kill any weeds that sprout.
Put down the starter fertilizer and lime.
Apply the starter fertilizer according to the spreading rate on the bag.
It is a good idea to use an actual Scotts spreader to ensure accuracy.
The lime is needed for acidic soil as most soils in the Northeast are.
Especially if your area is anywhere near evergreen trees or shrubs, you can be guaranteed it is acidic.
If you want to be exact, you can take a soil sample to your local co-operative extension office to be tested.
Make sure you tamp the soil as much as possible.
Planting grass in soft soil is not a good idea.
Use a hand tamper or rent a gas one depending on area size.
If you are putting down a large amount of soil, it is best to lay it in layers and tamp in between.
Tamping more than 5 or 6 inches of soil will not properly compact it.
Take care in this area if you want your lawn to remain level years from now.
Using a water roller is usually not good enough to compact your soil as needed a tamper is best.
Use your rake to slightly rough up the very top of the area.
You want to create some areas for the seed to embed itself.
Spread the seed.
Spread it again using a proper spreader at the rate recommended on the bag.
Putting down too much seed is not a good idea.
It will not help your lawn grow any faster and there will be more risk of the lawn being too crowded and choking itself to death.
Ensure good contact between the seed and the soil.
At this point you can use a water roller over the entire area to push the seeds into the loosened top layer of the area.
Alternately, you can use the back of your garden rake to very gently put some of the soil to cover the seeds.
Don't worry if most of the seeds are exposed, that is fine.
Put down the peat moss.
The peat moss will act both as a protective layer for the seeds and as a mulch.
Using some sort of container, you want to spread the peat moss in a thin layer over the entire seeded area.
It is only necessary to cover the soil and seeds so they are not visible.
Putting down too much peat moss won't hurt your seeds, but it is a waste.
As long as you can't see the soil, that's fine.
This part is very time consuming and labour intensive, but it is the most important part of this process.
The peat moss is important to help the soil retain its moisture so you don't have to water more than twice a day (maybe once a day if you're lucky).
Water.
It is important that you thoroughly water your area the first time.
Do not put down so much water down as to flood your area, but cover it consistently and go over it many times.
The peat moss will turn a dark brown when it is wet.
Above all you don't want any standing water, give the peat moss and soil a chance to absorb the water but you need to get a lot of water in there to start.
Make sure that you consistently water your seeded area.
This is another benefit to the peat moss, it is very easy to know when it is in need of water.
When the peat moss returns to its dry, light brown colour, you know it is time to put down more water.
Get it good and wet and back to its dark brown colour.
Ideally, you want the peat moss to always be wet and dark brown, but more realistically you'll probably water before you go to work and then when you get home from work.
If the peat moss is not dry, don't bother watering it!
It's the perfect indicator of when you need to water.