SpoonGet up early, and stretch yourself out.
Around eight AM should do it.This will help your muscles get used to moving after sleep.
If you didn't get your eight to eleven hours of sleep last night, save the great day for tomorrow.
You will need energy.
Eat a healthy, nutritious, and energy boosting breakfast.
Stay away from sugared cereals and caffeine, (no Froot Loops or Mountain Dew) as they will give you a boost and then you will be very groggy.
Eat oatmeal with fruit, or hearty bacon strips and pancakes.
Do something fun until late morning Read a book, play a board game, or just practice your violin until around ten o'clock AM.
Do something that you enjoy, and it will get you in a good mood for the rest of the day.
Bake cookies, lemon bars, or make pudding.
You will need it later in the day.
Be sure to follow the recipe instructions or you could end up with one tough cookie, or worse.
But have fun with it.
Invite a friend, cousin, or sibling to go to the park with you.
Bring a picnic basket full of yummy food, and whatever you made earlier.
Play on the swings, Slide down the slides, and play some tag or hide 'n seek.
Have a picnic in the park with your friend, cousin, or whoever you brought to the park with you.
Lay a soft blanket on the grass and just have fun.
Good foods are sandwiches, apples, pears, cookies, and baked patato/corn chips.
Be sure to bring juice boxes and water bottles.
Play again in the park with your friend.
Have fun, play tag, and swing on the swings.
You should have lots of energy from the healthy lunch you ate earlier.
Be careful though, you don't want to get hurt on the playground.
If you get tired, just sit on a park bench and watch the pretty ducks, squirrles, ect.
Change into your swimming suit and take a dip in the neighborhood pool with your friends and siblings.
Make it a party.
Swim to your hearts desire, you can even race your friends.
Jump into the deep end if you can swim, and have a contest to see who can make the best splash.
Head home and do something quite and very fun, like study for school, tidy up your room, organize your dresser, and even practice your musical instrument.
If this isn't your style, make something with clay, play legos, or just dance around to your favorite music.
Sing like nobody is listening, dance like nobody is watching.
Just have fun.
Eat a yummy in my tummmy dinner with your parents, siblings, and pets.
Ask your mom if you can invite a few friends over for dinner.
Good dinners are chicken and vegetables, homemade fried potato slices, baked potato, and for a special occasion, turkey.