necessary.Find out where they are being held and by what police agency.
Whether you get the call from a police officer or your friend, make sure that this is the first thing you ask.
If you can, tell your friend that you are finding a lawyer and not to answer any compromising police questions until that lawyer arrives.
In short, the 'name, rank, and serial number' response will do fine.
They should always cooperate, but the less said until a lawyer arrives, the better.
Anything they say, even to you over the phone, can be used against them in court, and having a lawyer present as a defense mediation between them and the police is essential.
Your friend must immediately say, "I want a lawyer" and the police cannot interrogate him.
Even if he has to repeat this again and again, it will save him from saying something that may be used against him in court.
Ask what the actual charge is, and do not let them try to ask you what happened.
The call is not privileged and it can, and probably will, be recorded by police for later use.
If the arrested is an adult, the police are not required to tell a friend or family member anything.
Advise them to tell the officer they will not answer questions or take tests without a lawyer present.
Tell them not to make any statements about any alleged offenses and tell them not to take any tests, with the exception of alcohol screening tests (see warnings), unless or until they get advice from a lawyer.
Only the arrested subject can invoke his rights; you can not do it for them.
Find a criminal defense attorney . Keep calling lawyers until you find one that either answers their phone or has an answering service that can reach them anytime, day or night.
Tell the lawyer that your friend is arrested and give him the address of the Police Station, and as much information as you know.
Many lawyers will do this for free, but may request payment of at least $150-$350 for that call.
Gather as much money as you can to pay the lawyer in court and to post bail.
It is more important to get a good lawyer on the case early than to immediately get your friend out of jail.