toiletriesDon't be paranoid.
It is natural to be careful, but there is no need to be paranoid to the point of paralysis.
Do your homework and get background checks through the organization arranging the homestay.
It might help to think about the other person's feelings - they will be worried too about the home they are coming to stay in.
Try to connect with them in advance and send e-mails, photos of the home and family, even the pets etc., and get to know one another.
Ask questions about diet, hobbies, wishes for their visit etc., so that you can get prepared in advance.
Provide some space and privacy in your home for your homestay guest.
It is better to give your homestay guest some privacy but be sure to include him or her in your family activities.
Give them the opportunity to join in when they feel like and be genuine and encouraging in the way in which you make the offers!
Give them the chance to use online tools.
If you have the internet, make sure to let them have time blocks to check their email and use the internet as needed.
If you don't have the internet, offer to take them to library or internet-cafe.
Most homestay guests will want to keep in touch with family and friends back home and let them know how things are going.
Make sure your guest is not allergic to your pet or anything else that may be hard to avoid in your home.
Additionally, be sure to find out if they have any food allergies or other requirements.
All of this should be found out before they come and discover dog hairs all over their bedspread.
Be natural and welcoming to your guest.
Make sure to have a smile on your face when you first greet them.
And keep smiling!
Try not to discuss payment and household rules on the first day your guest is in your home.
If this is a paying arrangement, it may already be something sorted out through the homestay organization.
If not, and you want payment, be sure to have arranged this in advance of arrival and don't leap on them about it when they first arrive.
Most guests know that they should submit payment to you within two days of arrival.
Don t assume that your guest will be familiar with your country's customs and traditions.
Your homestay guest will want to learn them.
Hopefully, you will want to learn a little about their customs and traditions as well.
Try to be patient as you teach them about your customs.