wikiHow)Dress appropriately.
Visit your local running supplies store for good gear.
It is important to cover up your extremities in particular, such as fingers, ears, nose, cheeks, chin, wrists and toes, as these are especially susceptible to being frozen.
Get good socks, shoes, mittens/gloves, hats and face and neck protection.
Dress in layers, just as you would for other winter sports and use wind-protective gear as the outer layers.
Get good shoes and run in well groomed areas.
If running on snow and icy sidewalks, you must be well equipped.
Falls on ice can result in such injuries as grazes, broken bones and teeth.
Get shoes that are appropriate for running in the snow season.
And it is best to stick to cleared sidewalks, groomed running trails and places where you are certain that there is no ice or likelihood of drops under snow cover, such as covered drains, holes or hollows.
Also be wary of tree roots in parks that might be barely covered in snow, especially as the season begins to thaw.
Example of suitable running trail during snow season
Watch out for other snow sports enthusiasts.
If sharing your running space with skiers, sledders and snowshoers, be aware of their trail areas and keep out of their way - do not run or jog on ski and sled trails.
Skiers and sledders will be faster than you and generally do not expect to see runners on trails during snow season.
It is generally not a good idea to run on snowshoe trails either, as these will have deep snow that is unsuitable for normal running or walking and you'll simply sink up to your knees or thighs.
If your local park hasn't set aside a running area, ask for one to be started.
Don't push yourself to the limits.
Running during snow season is very different from other times of the year.
Your body will become exhausted far more quickly and will use up its energy reserves very quickly.
Drink a lot of water to keep hydrated and carry some snack bars or nuts to keep you sustained.
Watch the wind.
As mentioned above, wind protective gear is very important.
The wind can cause frostbite and burns very quickly if you haven't taken precautions.
Use Vaseline or a similar barrier cream to protect your face and use clothing to keep the wind off extremities.
Wear goggles or glasses if needed.
Don't drink alcohol or smoke before going running.
Alcohol increases heat loss and nicotine harms the body's heat control mechanisms.
Get inside.
When you have finished running or jogging, do not hang around outside in sweaty clothing.
Doing so can bring on hypothermia.
Go inside for that well earned spa, sauna or bath and change into fresh clothes!