professional.Get an education . When applying for a job, it s important that you have a way to set yourself apart from everyone else.
One of the major ways to set you apart from John Doe is to have an education from an accredited college or university.
A two year technical school is a great start, although if you are really looking to shine and stand out, you will want to have a Bachelor s Degree.
And if you are really ambitious, a Master s Degree will really show employers that you are dedicated to what you do.
Network . Your talents, abilities, and experience will never take you anywhere if nobody knows you exist.
In today's highly technologically advanced society, there are a number of easy ways to network right from the comfort of your home.
One great tool to utilize is LinkedIn a professional, business-oriented social networking site.
It s been suggested by some that you should steer clear from using Facebook to network, as it lacks the business themed structure that you will find on sites like LinkedIn.
Twitter can also be a great resource, but only if you represent yourself in a way that you would like your employer to see.
Participate in an internship . Once you have determined a career field that may interest you, look into internship possibilities.
Another way to set yourself apart from other people applying for the same job as you is to have experience in the field you are looking to work in.
Participating in an internship is a great way to get experience doing what you want to do, and it will also open your eyes to what it is you would be doing if you were to land a job with the company.
Who knows, maybe after doing an internship with the company, you may even discover that the career field you were originally interested in may not be for you.
Research the company you want to work for.
If you have determined a company you want to work for, research the company.
If you do receive an interview with the company, it will look great to the interviewer if you have a reasonable knowledge and background of the company.
Again, this is a way that will set you apart from other people applying for the job.
You will want to do this research before you even apply for a job.
Things to look for include what company stands for, what their values are, and what their mission is. If the company does not stand for what you believe to be right, you are not going to want to work for the company.
Receive and complete an application.
The way that you complete your application is critical.
Remember that when you are filling out the application, you want to make your application stand out from everyone else.
Your potential employer may have another 30 applications they are going to review.
What can you add that will make you stand out?
What sort of leadership roles have you involved yourself in?
Be sure you attach a r sum with your application.
When you are completing your r sum , you are again going to want to make it stand out.
When you are including your past jobs on a r sum , only include jobs that relate to the field you are applying to work in.
For example, if you are applying to work as a car salesman, it s not critical that you include past jobs such as a dog-walker, because it has no relation to working as a salesman.
Be certain that you review your application and r sum well for any possible grammatical errors.
Have a number of other people read both your application and r sum , and see if they have any suggestions on how you could improve it.
Turn in your application.
Rather than just mailing your application in, or turning it in to a frontline employee, do some research and determine who the Human Resource Manager is for the company.
Turn your application in directly to the Human Resources Manager.
When you are turning your application in, make sure that you dress in appropriate clothing, use eye contact, and speak with confidence.
First impressions can only be made one time, and you want to make sure that you are leaving them with a great first impression of who you are, and what you bring to the table.
Follow up with the application.
Three days after you turned the application in, follow up with the person who you turned the interview in with, and ask if they have had a chance to review your application.
Speaking with the company again shows that you are eager, and you want the job.
Line up an interview . After you have managed to line up an interview, make sure that you take all the appropriate steps to prepare yourself.
Practice interview questions with friends or family.
While this may seem embarrassing, it will help to prepare you for the actual interview.
Many employers will be looking at the way you present yourself, and the way you act, even more than they will care about the answers to your interview questions.
Your potential employer understands that you will be nervous, and they want you to be yourself.
Ask your employer questions.
They are not just interviewing you, but you are also interviewing them.
Make sure that you maintain eye contact throughout the interview, and make sure that after the interview is done, you feel satisfied saying I think they now know me quite well.
If you don t feel comfortable saying that, there is probably more that you should say.