meeting.Plan before the meeting.
Provide a comfortable setting for the discussion.
Ensure there is room for everyone; both in the location and parking spaces.
Host at Home : Arrange for a spouse or sitter to attend children.
Pets: Keep pets away from the meeting area.
Inquire if your guests have allergies or fears of animals.
Know the number of club members.
Know how many are coming.
Plan for at leastmore guests than you expect.
Know whether or not your group is looking for or introducing new members.
Time and Place : Know where and when the meeting is held.
Make sure everyone else knows where the meeting is being held.
Provide clear directions.
Food : Provide food according to time of day (ex: coffee, Danishes, sliced fruit for morning-midday, wine with cheese and crackers in the evening).
Check to ensure your guests do not have allergies to ingredients such as peanuts.
Seating : Arrange enough seats for your guests to sit comfortably.
Place chairs in a circular fashion to equalize guest and promote discussion.
Room temperature : Set thermostat to a comfortable temperature.
Environment : Cleanse environment from bad smells, dirt, dust, or unsanitary details.
Punctuality : Be on time.
You should be ready or arrive ten minutes before your guest to ensure everything is ready.
Read the book.
Make sure you read the correct book.
If the book was hard to understand, research and make notes so that you understand the book and can explain it to others.
Notes : Make notes about the book.
If you make notes inside the book, mark your pages to find them immediately.
Know what you re going to discuss before the meeting.
Discussion topics : Decide 8 10 questions or discussion topics about the book.
Make sure your questions/topics promote discussion.
Do not ask yes or no questions.
Focus on themes, plot, characters, morals, messages, etc.
Stay away from I like or I don t like as the center of the meeting.
The Next Book : Know whether or not you re selecting the book for the next meeting.
Understand the guidelines of your group and select a book accordingly.
Make sure the group has not read it previously.
Research basic information about your selection.
Write down the name of the author and book title with correct spelling.
Greet everyone with a smile and pleasant attitude.
It is your job to make everyone feel comfortable in the environment.
Show your guests :
Where they can put their things.
Where the bathroom is.
Inform guests whether or not the environment is non-smoking.
If it is not, show them where they can smoke.
Get everyone settled with something to eat or drink.
Present refreshments in an obvious but not obtrusive spot.
This shows them that they are welcome to help themselves.
Don t start immediately.
Guests will want to mingle after putting their things down.
Introduce any new members.
Do so when everyone is seated.
Allow the new member to say a few things about him or herself.
Make the guest feel especially welcome and comfortable.
Don t be intrusive.
Start the discussion.
You should already have your book and discussion topics ready.
Allow conversation to flow freely.
Control any outside conversation.
Don t let conversation stray away from discussion of the book.
Let the others answer questions or discuss topics first.
If one of your guests has a question or topic that is not on your list, do not hesitate to let the group answer or discuss the topic.
Wrap up the discussion.
Don t rush other members.
Let everyone take their turn speaking and presenting thoughts and opinions.
Plan the next meeting.
Decide who will host and what book to read.