many.Think about your space.
You will need enough room to place your fountain, a convenient electrical outlet (to supply power to the pump), and a way to cover the electrical cord (running the cord through a garden with high plants or under rock landscaping works the best).
Consider your theme.
What kind of yard do you have?
Do you want an artistic fountain?
Something natural?
Do you want a country garden kind of feel?
Make sure your fountain theme meshes well with your existing landscaping, otherwise it will likely look out of place, no matter how fantastic it is.
Design your fountain.
This can be as simple or as detailed as you like, but it must contain certain elements:
Reservoir - Fountains recycle the same water from the reservoir, through the pump and out the fountain head.
You will need a container that will hold your pump and several gallons of water (it will vary based on the pump and the size of your fountain).
Pump and tubing - You will need a pump with enough power to push the water up to the fountain head (this is measured in gallons per second).
Since this will vary based on your design, it is best to consult with a specialty a landscaping supply store before purchasing.
The tubing carries water from the pump to the fountain head.
Tubing can be rubber, plastic, copper, it all depends upon your design.
Rubber is the most versatile and far easier for inexperienced hands to work with.
Fountain head - This is the "fountain" part of the fountain.
It might be the end of the tubing, a store bought fountain head, a sculpture with a hole for the tubing to be inserted, a length of copper pipe with holes drilled into it, or any number of things.
Your fountain head must allow for the water to run back into the reservoir.
Gather your supplies.
You will need a pump, a container for a reservoir (see Tips for ideas), tubing, and any other elements that are custom to your design.
Other items that might come in handy are small stones and loose dirt for leveling the reservoir, a shovel, water proof caulking, sand.
Get building.
Dig a hole (only after making sure there are no power lines!), level with sand and put your reservoir into the ground--or level it on the ground for above ground fountains.
Assemble the elements of your fountain.
This could be as simple as a pile of rocks inside a large bucket, or as complicated as a welded copper framework.
The only thing that matters is that the fountain head pours the water back into the reservoir.
Place the pump.
Connect all of the tubing and make sure the pump is set to a medium high setting.
Make sure that you can access it easily and that it can be removed for winter weather or if it should stop working.
Fill the reservoir with clean water.
Adjust the pump speed until the water comes out of the fountain head without spraying outside of the bounds of the reservoir.
Hide the cord and add finishing touches.
Plant plants, add decorative bricks, and hide unattractive edges.