calendar.
Invest in a calendar.
Make sure there's enough space to record multiple entries on one day.
You'll need to it keep your move on task.
You may need a one page per day calendar if you have a busy schedule.
Request medical and dental records for the entire household, including pets, and have your physicians and veterinarians write out several months of any prescription medications.
Carry these files with
you.Buy a calendar for organizing your move and a notebook with pockets, dividers and a place for pens and highlighters.
You can even find business card holders to fit into aring binder to organize movers, real estate agents and other business cards and gift cards that may be needed for the move.
Show everyone the folder (so they know to keep an eye on it and not borrow or move it) and keep it centrally
located.Save receipts, confirmations, maps, photos of new homes, etc. in dedicated areas of the
notebook.Keep pens, etc. handy for making notes and recording
details.Keep the calendar and notebook together and keep all of your appointments and lists
organized.Buy a full size notebook since most print outs will be letter size.
Check the school supply aisle for one with handy pockets, dividers, etc. Consider a bright color that's easy to spot should it get moved or
buried.Consider the notebook your mobile office for moving.
Don't let non-move papers clutter your files (children's art work, junk mail, bills not move related, work material, etc.) Keep it with you when you are home shopping, running move errands and taking care of move
business.Use the highlighter to note move expenses on receipts and file in the pre-designated area of your moving notebook as soon as you can following a
purchase.
Schedule appointments with familiar physicians before you leave.
Don't forget to visit eye doctor, OBGYN, chiropractor or any other
specialist.This is especially important if you anticipate any downtime in insurance coverage or if you haven't taken advantage of the coverage you currently have.
If there is going to be a lapse in coverage look into Cobra
insurance.Start budgeting your move if you haven't
already.Use gift certificates for local stores or restaurants.
Start trying to use them so they don't go to waste.
If you don't want them bribe friends to come help you pack and give them
away.Check local dry cleaners for any items that may have been left behind.
Same for fur cold storage or any rented storage facilities in town.
Check your secondary dry cleaner near work or
home.Notify magazine or other monthly
subscriptions.Notify exterminator or other home service.
Do what you must but cancel anything impractical or
unnecessary.Become familiar with your travel route.
Use AAA, the internet, or maps, and be prepared for the weather you may encounter along the way.
Print copies of maps, confirmations for hotels and put aside in file with "Travel Paperwork" for
trip.Make copies for all
vehicles.Make a file for "Moving Expenses and Paperwork".
This will help you keep track of your spending and provide a place for you to store all moving related receipts, truck email confirmations, deposit payments, forms,
etc.Verify pet travel plans.
If you are traveling with pets you should call and speak with the hotel, airline, etc. before making your reservation.
They often change pet rules and don't post it on website.
Some have a few pet rooms and you must notify them ahead of time.
Since many online booking sites charge your card as soon as you book you'll want to verify with a manager the pet policy and not assume what you read online is true or what you post on the reservation request is read.
See
tips.Assign tasks to everyone in the house to help with packing and
moving.Contact new schools and send anything necessary to
enroll.You may need to send a deposit or a reference from your current utility
companyDeposits can make a huge dent in your moving budget so keep track of the unforeseen expenses.
They add up
quickly.Forward your mail or get the appropriate
forms.Call the local utilities in your future digs and make sure they will all transfer in a timely
manner.Request a phone number in
advance.Research and get estimates for moving services or rentals.
There are a variety of listings online that offer free estimates.
Some companies will even bid against each other for your business.
These offer a variety of services including packing and loading, load or unload
only.Decide how you are going to transport your
belongings.Consider how you will get vehicles to new
location.Check out the costs to move yourself by renting a truck
If you need to haul a vehicle make sure the appropriate truck is reserved with the appropriate vehicle hauler.
If your vehicles are too heavy you may need to enlist a friend to help move the
vehicles.Everything doesn't have to go the same way.
Consider using more than one mode of transportation.
Books or heavy storage items might travel fine in a pod or by Greyhound, but your grandmother's antiques may be best on a truck.
Somethings might be better in a car or with
you.Start getting boxes and moving supplies if you are packing
yourself.Make your truck reservations.
Also reserve any other equipment you will be renting (hand trucks, appliance movers, furniture pads, etc.)
If you are hiring loading or unloading assistance you should go ahead and reserve the dates and times.
Print and keep your confirmations!
Remember to call and confirm the dates and
times.Sort through your belongings and get rid of anything you don't
need.Have a garage sale or go to the Good Will or local equivalent.
If you don't live in a popular yard sale area or have restrictions you can rent a table at a local flea
market.Stock up on moving supplies.
There is no such thing as too much tape.
Buy it.
Use it over the holidays if you have something
leftover.Buy permanent markers to label
boxes.Buy boxes from moving companies or storage places.
They stack better (being uniform size) and are of higher quality than one-use boxes thrown out by
retailers.Avoid any boxes from food retailers as they can contain bugs or eggs.
Store your boxes someplace, clean, dry and with enough space to assemble as
needed.Pack all that you can, and that you can do without for a few weeks,for the items that are still left.
This means DVD's, CD's, books, out-of-season clothing, items in your attic, fine china, turkey roasters, etc.
Get boxes from moving companies made for packing dishes.
They have dividers and are designed specifically for dish sets.
Glass packing boxes with dividers are also worth the extra
expense.Double check everything that is already on your list to make sure that it's been done.
Now is a good time to re-delegate, make follow up calls, or make sure important items haven't been overlooked or
mishandled.Call to confirm reservations for moving trucks, movers or loading and unloading assistance.
This is not a good time for a lost reservation but you still have time to find a replacement so don't
panic!Never assume you're on the books.
Even if you have a print out you can call and remind them of particular request.
Some rental company staffers may wait until the day before your reservation to make your arrangements.
By calling and staying in touch they may not wait until the last minute and you are more likely to get what you
request.Don't wait until the last day to verify your confirmation.
Be very specific if you need a' truck or a 26' truck.
Sometimes they will move you into a bigger truck than you requested and it may be more than you need or can handle and MUCH more expensive in gas.
If you call a few days before they can get the size you need and not give you what's on hand.
The more specific your needs the more follow ups you should make with the
company.Get your car(s) serviced, oil changed, fluids checked.
If they leave a cap off or forget something you won't be on the highway before you realize
it.Plan ahead for living somewhere new.
If you are starting a new job you should take anything to the dry cleaner to be cleaned so you won't have to look for a cleaner when you
arrive.Take down all curtains that are moving and have those cleaned as
well.Leave yourself many notes and set an alarm on your phone for "week before" to remind you to pick it
up.Ask your dry cleaner to call and remind you since you may get
sidetracked.Schedule time with friends this week if you haven't already.
The next two weeks will be too busy to spend quality time hanging out.
Of course, you can ask them over to help
pack.Pack all that you can or are permitted to pack by your carrier.
Consider paper plates and plastic cups from here on
out.Label boxes.
Label the boxes based on what room they are going to and not necessarily what room they are in now.
Think of your new floor plan and storage
areas.What is in the hall linen closet now may need to go to the guest
bathroom.Don't forget the attic and use a step ladder to check the tops of closets or high shelves, check basements and crawl spaces, look under appliances if possible.
Take down bird feeders, flags or other outdoor decorations, wash them off, dry them and pack them
away.Get a cleaning crew or do it yourself: wash windows, vents, blinds, mop, hose off porches, etc.
If you own your home and it has yet to be sold, make sure you talk about a regular cleaning/lawn maintenance company while you're gone with your realtor
.If you can't do it as you go you should arrange for someone after the house has been
emptied.Designate an area in the house or garage for packed boxes.
Make sure the area is dry and secure so your goods won't be damaged or
stolen.Try to empty rooms, clean and seal them as you
go.Move what you can into the box staging
area.Try to get a certain number of rooms done a day.
Break it up and award yourself time with friends when you get ahead of
schedule.Put on your pet as you are loading for departure.
Update new address with microchip company if you have the service and have not done so
already.Look over your list once again.
If you are a religious person, now is a really good time to
pray.Try to get the family hair cuts since it may take you time to find a new
place.Clean it and don't use it.
That goes for the oven and grill if you are leaving it or taking it
Double check the attic and other hiding places for belongings that were
overlooked.Clean out coolers that may be used for transporting food for the move.
Sit them aside and allow to air out and
dry.Mow the grass and disconnect garden hoses and outdoor tools.
Clean
everything.Check with moving company for rules about transporting anything with a fuel tank.
You may need to drain the
tank.Keep a box open in kitchen and pack things as you no longer need
it.Remember to check the backs of drawers and tops of
shelvesWipe containers or items that are dusty or have food
residue.Make sure you aren't packing anything that should be refrigerated.
Read the
labels.Toss or give away any food that won't safely transport or is almost
empty.Buy any snacks or drinks for the
drive.Get traveling cash from ATM.
Remember to get enough to tip hired help, tolls, or to bribe the guy at the hotel front desk when you try to check in with a golden
retriever.Call and re-confirm truck and any assistance being
hired.Clean off any patio furniture and allow to air dry.
Store it someplace where it won't be rained on before loading it.
(Check
forecast)Take dogs or cats to groomers and have them boarded.
Schedule pick up on departure day.
Get copies of vet records and pick up food, toys, leashes or treats if you need
to.Get your pets groomed so they're nice and clean for the
move.Call and confirm with cleaners if you are having the house cleaned after your
departure.Pack things you will be traveling with.
Set in a specific area so it isn't accidentally loaded on the truck.
Use signs if needed or hide it in an empty
closet.Put all pet items in same
area.Put all children's travel toys in the same
area.Use un-needed suitcases or duffel bags to keep travel supplies organized for the family and
pets.Move as many boxes and small items to the staging area as possible.
This will clear the path for the big appliances and other items that should be loaded
first.Plan ahead for your moving help.
If you will be pressed for time to leave right after loading you should invite your helping friends or family out for pizza or a meal.
By feeding them early (the day or two before) they may be less likely to "call in sick".
Stay upbeat and don't complain about the disaster or how much you still have to
do.Don't hint that you aren't prepared.
This scares people who are
helping.If you still have a lot to do consider calling friends or family and asking for help.
Don't be unprepared when the moving help arrives.
It makes it hard on
everyone.Find other forms of entertainment.
If you haven't done so and no one will go through withdrawal, disconnect and pack TV's, DVD's, etc. If they will, only keep what you must.
Pack all but one, leave it on the floor and move the stand to the staging
area.Move door mats and other rugs that could cause someone to trip and fall.
Clean, roll up and
pack.Haul trash to dump.
If you have trash cans that are going you should bleach them and allow them to air
dry.Put out bags to be used for trash.
Use heavy duty bags to avoid leaks.
Chances are good these will be
stuffed.Make sure everyone knows where full trash bags are going.
Set them outside and away from items being moved.
You don't want to accidentally move a bag of rotting food with you and you don't want to accidentally toss something that was packed in a garbage
bag.Water plants that are going.
Clean any dead or falling leaves, cut back if
possible.Wash and dry any dirty clothes.
Pack in suitcase for travel and immediate access when you arrive at your new home.
You won't have time to do laundry tomorrow and the Washer and Dryer will be loaded
first.Have moving, work clothes or any clothing needs for the next few days easily
accessible.Put together travel bags for family and pets with snacks, food, water, leashes,
etc.Clean the dog crate if
needed.Make sure all boxes are sealed, labeled and stacked in staging
area.Have an area designated for pets if they will be home while you are loading.
Warn any help and limit access to the area.
There is nothing worse than a pet escaping on moving day!
Additionally, they may be very stressed with the household uproar or strangers in the house.
Even the most well trained pet can go a little nuts on moving
day.Try to catch mail man. Remind him that you are leaving tomorrow.
Stick note in mailbox after mail has arrived so he will see it
tomorrow.Include the names of mail receivers in house (and maiden name) and include new forwarding
address.Tape it inside so a substitute will see it.
It will probably remain until the new owners come
in.Eat!
Try to eat fairly well balanced meals.
It is easy to grab fast food but you should try to avoid anything that will leave you feeling drained.
Try to avoid unfamiliar places or dishes you've never tried since you don't want to get
sick.Clean out last of refrigerator.
If it is still plugged, unplug it.
Leave door ajar.
Insert baking soda.
Use duct tape to secure it upright.
Secure shelves with
tape.Make sure you are awake, showered and ready
early.Send someone for breakfast while you wait for movers.
If you stayed off site you should plan to arrive as early as possible.
If you stayed there: store your bedding and any towels or items left in bathrooms
.Put paper towels, hand soap and TP in bath for
movers.Remove all of your items except for
essentials.Leave soap and towel if you are showering before
leaving.Supervise!
If you aren't doing it yourself you should supervise movers at all times.
Take photos of any damage on site and notify the person in
charge.Move heavy appliances and heavy furniture first.
Cleaning supplies and items you will need immediately go in last.
Remember to change vacuum cleaner bag.
Take light bulbs!
See
Tips!Walk around house and yard to look for any forgotten
items.Return the moving truck.
Be sure to empty all property from cab and clean all ropes, strings, sweep out and return with appropriate fuel
levels.Send thank you notes to everyone who
helped.Leave reviews for any companies you
used.Return any unused boxes with receipt to get a refund.
Recycle as much moving supplies as
possible.Document with a camera any damage
done.Send out change of address post cards to your friends and family back
home.Take your car to car wash for good
cleaning.Relax and take a deep breath.
You deserve it.
Treat yourself and the family to a fun time in your new city.
Try a trip to a museum, a nice dinner, or a local