finances.Clean your room . It's easier to redo your room if there's no clutter.
Paint it . Simple enough?
Research popular colors professionals use to paint rooms, and consider how certain colors will look against your furniture and floor.
It is important not to simply paint your room your favorite color, as it may make your room look dark and small if you choose a dark color, or vivid and blinding with a bright color, or it may contrast horribly with the color of your furniture or floor.
Flooring.
Do you prefer carpets, paneling, or tile?
If you don't like your floor, you can change it's color or material if you can afford it.
If you want carpeting, you can also lay rugs on the floor for multiple colors and patterns on your floor.
Create an atmosphere.
Atmosphere is how a room feels.
This is very important when it comes to making your room just right.
If you want a cozier feeling room for example, try covering your lights to soften them, hanging and draping fabric from your ceiling, and use small lamps instead of ceiling flood lights to dim your room.
Or for a dark, foreboding room, use dark colors, play loud, harsh music, and leave everything somewhat messy.
Colors, materials, lighting, and music play a big part in the atmosphere of your room.
Storage.
Unfortunately, simply stuffing your things into your closet and under your bed will only make it impossible to find things.
Make sure you have enough storage containers to store your things in.
Closets, dressers, drawers, shelves, cubbies, and storage bins can all be used to keep your things.
IKEA sells many interesting storage solutions, although you will have to assemble the furniture yourself.
Bed.
If you are not satisfied with your current bed covers, get new ones.
Also decide if you want your bed on the floor, on a bed frame, or in a bunk bed or loft.
A loft gives you space under your bed to do things, while a teenager may want to have their mattress on the floor.
Wall decor.
One popular wall decoration is posters.
They can be of your favorite band, anime, or book, or artsy posters that make a statement.
If you can afford it, works of art (or prints of them) can be hung on the walls for a beautiful flourish.
Mirrors can help brighten your room and make it look more open, and are also practical.
You can even hang up your own drawings, photos you've taken, pictures printed from the internet, and more!
Comfort.
If your room has no chairs or comfy things other than your bed, you may want to consider getting something to sit on and relax.
You can use beanbags, stools, recliners, loveseats, or even couches in your room to give you a good place to relax.
Entertainment.
If you have a T.V. in your room, put a comfortable seat in front of it or position it so that you can view it from your bed.
Organize any consoles you have and your video games as well.
If you have a computer in your room, get a desk and some sort of chair.
Organize your CDs with a CD rack.
Lighting.
Sometimes you are very limited to what you can do with this, but see what you can do.
If you have lamps, cover them with interesting lampshades.
To make your room cozier and more romantic, try burning some candles.
For an Asian theme, use paper lanterns for a unique look.
You can even string up Christmas lights for a festive feel.
Mix it up by changing your light bulbs when they break with colored light bulbs.