help!Clean out your closet.
If you have a collection of unwanted items in your closet, have a yard sale, donate them to the charity, or pass them down to family members or friends who can use them.
With the money you earn getting rid of these items, you can buy more books or help to pay for bookshelves and any other modifications you want to make.
If you find any books while cleaning out, you can decide whether to keep them for your library or sell them to exchange for other books.
Put in bookshelves.
What's a library without bookshelves?
Get as many as you need, depending on how large your closet and your budget is. Shop around and visit markets or garage/yard sales for good deals.
You can put in freestanding bookcases, or if you are a bit handy, you can look for closet organizers or other systems that have shelves that mount directly to the walls.
Many organization systems are modular, meaning that if ever the time comes to relocate your library, you'll be able to reset the closet for clothing again easily.
Get some books.
If you have enough books to fill up all the bookshelves you put in, great.
Fill it with books about things you enjoy or that interest you.
After all it is your library.
If you are fortunate to have more shelf space than books, you can continue to fill them gradually.
Bookends will help to stand up the books until the shelves are full.
In any case, there is no need to accumulate books you have no intention ever of reading.
Fill your bookshelves.
Be sure most of the bookshelves are filled.
Also, don't cram books in the shelves if you have too many.
Get a basket to hold the extras or place another bookcase somewhere else, perhaps just outside your closet.
Create a place to read.
This might be simply a comfy chair with a lamp.
If you like to write or if others are invited to read there, you may wish to include a desk, table, or sofa.
Your seating may or may not share your closet, depending on your space and what you want to put there.
Read Make a Reading Nook in Your Room for lots more details on creating a space to read.
Keep a notebook that records books borrowed, if you lend books.
Write down the name of the book each person borrowed, the title and author, and the due date (if you have one), so you can keep track of where your books go.
Add in anything else you want to have in your closet-library.
This is your choice of extra items you might want.
(Chairs, beanbags, etc.)
Spread the word.
If you want other people to see and visit your library, hand out fliers or tell friends and family.
If not, skip this step and enjoy your library in private.
If you have kids, you could even designate a special shelf (or two) just for them and their favorite books.
They'll love it and so will you, because they'll be taking an interest in reading and learning.