life.Mince a large onion, a few ribs of celery and a large bell pepper - the Cajun "holy trinity" - and reserve in a separate container.
Chop or cut any whole game or poultry into pieces and reserve in separate container.
Store raw and cooked meats in separate containers.
Shell or shuck any seafood and reserve in separate container.
Store raw and cooked seafood in separate containers.
Slice any sausage, andouille or tasso and reserve in separate container.
Determine, approximately, how large your gumbo will be.
There will typically be twice as much volume of gumbo as you have volume of meat.
Make about 1/2 cup of roux for every estimated gallon or deslime at least 1 cup of okra for every estimated gallon.
[See HOW TO MAKE ROUX and DESLIMING OKRA in "Tips".]
Get out a pot large enough to hold more than your estimated quantity of gumbo- you will need room to stir.
Fill pot about 1/3 to 1/2 of the way with stock.
Brown the roux somewhere between peanut butter to dark chocolate in color using a wire whisk.
Stop the roux from burning -- careful, they call roux "Cajun napalm" -- by shutting off the burner a shade lighter than you want and carefully ladling some stock into the cast iron pan.
Immediately add half of the diced onion, celery, bell pepper mixture to the roux/stock mixture.
Blend well and then add to the large pot of stock.
Add any meat that is already cooked to the stock.
Place the pot on a back burner on the stove, and begin heating over medium-high heat.
Brown any uncooked meats in a skillet while you're waiting for the stock to boil.
This removes excess fat and enhances the flavor of the gumbo.
Meat need not be fully cooked inside; it will finish in the pot.
Work in batches if necessary- crowding the pan with meat will prevent liquid evaporation and prevent proper browning.
Add the sauteed meat carefully to the heating pot of liquid.
Discard excess fats or reserve for cooking later.
Allow the pot to come to a boil (if it has not already), then lower to a simmer and add any seafood and the remaining onion, celery, bell pepper mixture.
Stir occasionally to prevent sticking.
Return to the gumbo after 1 hour to add cayenne and any other seasonings, adding each one gradually and adjusting to taste.
(In other words, taste the gumbo as you add, and continue to add until it's right.)
Simmer for 1 or more hours.
(Adding seafood such as shrimp or oysters in the last 10 minutes keeps them tender).
Cook rice.