truth.Write a letter to your local government.
This will most likely be disregarded, but is a very good first move.
Present your position firmly in the first few sentences.
Be succinct and to the point.
If the law is likely not to be repealed, then present an alternative or compromise.
Exploit the flaws in the rule, and then attack.
The letter should not exceed about an hour of reading (15-20 paragraphs).
Go to your city hall.
Set up an appointment to see someone (the mayor or commissioners, or their staff members), and bring a copy of your letter.
If you are young, have your parent sit with you.
Explain to whoever they tell you to see the letter in better detail, enforcing your ideas strongly.
A personal meeting portrays a stronger passion to the subject.
After the meeting, ask their views on your subject and if they support your or not.
Politicians are often masters at letting you feel supported without actually taking a side.
If they support you, ask if they will work with you to change the law.
If they do not support you, ask them what about your viewpoint they don't agree with.
Sometimes a compromise can be reached and support achieved.
If you can only get a meeting with their staff, you will need to follow up.
Get their direct phone number if you can and call back in a few days.
Ask if they have spoken about your issue with their boss yet.
If they have, ask what their boss' position is on your issue.
Be polite, but be firm.
If a politician is not going to support a legitimate issue, then the price they pay is being on record as against changing the law.
Do not let them "play for free" by remaining officially off the record on your issue.
Organize a community.
Find others that share the same feelings about the law as you do.
Pass out flyers and speak to people.
Encourage them to attend the next public meeting and make their voices heard.
Attend your local government meetings.
The best time to attend a meeting about a local ordinance or law you are concerned about is when the law is under consideration in the first place.
If you missed that meeting, then you want to attend future meetings and speak on the subject publicly at this meeting if you can.
If you have arranged to be scheduled to speak on the subject beforehand, that's good, but even if they are not cooperating and granting you an official speaking slot, you can still speak out when the opportunity for public input is granted by the governing body.
Remember to always be polite when you have the podium, and check your local ordinances for what you can and cannot do.
Many local governing bodies have laws in place that enable them to arrest you for doing things like refusing to yield the microphone when asked by the chairman.
The more people you can get signed up to speak at the meeting the better.
If you can call your local newspaper/TV/radio station and have them attend to cover your issue, that helps a lot.
If they are already there, be sure to try to talk to them after the meeting about your issue.
Protest.
Once you have a strong community against the law, make your final attack: protest.
Go to local government and find out how to get a permit for protesting.
Find a place near city hall that will get attention from them as well as passersby, but will not stop the flow of the hall's work.
This shows that you are politely objecting, but still demand a change.
Consider Running or Sponsoring a Candidate for local office.
Especially in smaller communities (with low voter turnouts), this may motivate the elected officials to change their minds.