calendarLook at the business card as soon as you receive it.
Reading the business card is a good way to remember someone's name and connect it with their face.
The person's title is usually printed on a business card, too, meaning that you have one more clue about who they are and what they do.
Have a place to put business cards that you receive.
If you carry a notebook or bag with you to meetings, set aside a place in it for business cards.
Or, use the second pocket on your own business card carrier to collect cards you receive.
Whatever you do, don't stick them in your notes willy-nilly or stuff them in a pocket where they'll go missing or go through the wash.
Organize contact information on your computer.
When you return from a business lunch, trade show or meeting, immediately put the business cards you received in a safe place, such a desk drawer or something out of the reach of other people is ideal.
When you have time, grab all the business cards that have piled up in your desk drawer, and type all of the information into Outlook, Excel, Access or even Word.
Use a Notes field or column that goes with each business card s electronic file.
Note down any information that wasn't on the card: what they do, what information or prospects they offered, when you met them, and so on.
Create a rating system for great business contacts, so-so or potential business contacts and those that you ll probably never talk to again.
You could use a numbering system: all 1s are great, 2s are so-so and 3s you ll never talk to, or you could use a creen, yellow and red stoplight system respectively.
Use a system you won t forget so that you can categorize your contacts.
Arrange the contacts the way you need them.
You could alphabetize by last name, or you can also categorize by alphabetical order of name or company; city where you met the person if you travel often; or by category of industry.
This way you can just type in the info you know into a Search box and come up with a list of contacts qualified for your search.
Many computer contact organization systems can sort contacts any way you need them and make them searchable, in case you can only remember some part of what's there.
If you can use one of these systems, you can save yourself a lot of manual filing.
Organize business cards the old-fashioned way.
Keep the cards in a Rolodex or business card holder.
You can find business card holders in office supply stores.
The old-fashioned way, even if it consists of a rubber band in your desk drawer, can be a good backup for the computerized information.
You'll have to decide how you want to organize your business cards: by name, company, city, etc.