possible.Identify what it is you care about.
Write down "the problem".
Identify who you know who also cares about this problem.
If that list is short, do some research online to find out if others are talking about the problem in your area.
Try to get a group of 3-10 people together to think about the solution.
Articulate your vision for solving the problem.
Don't worry if it doesn't seem like you alone can make it happen, that's what organizing is for.
Write down "the solution."
Make a plan.
Now, how do you get to that solution?
What actions are needed?
Who has the power to decide to make your solution real?
If this person is not likely to be influenced by you, who can influence them that you can influence?
Be as concrete as possible, and target your actions (i.e. meeting, rally, letter writing campaign, voter turnout , etc.) to the person you feel will be influenced by you.
Write down "your target" and "your action plan."
Get others to join.
Be strategic by going for the easiest supporters first.
People are more likely to join you if they have personal contact with you.
Spread your idea through any/all of the following avenues:
As a group identify who else you know who might be interested and what groups your group has access to that might support you
Talk to people on the street and collect contact information from supporters
Post your idea on forums online and set up a website/blog where people can join you
Use local media (don't forget about community television, radio, and papers which are great for launching an idea you can't get in the mainstream media).
Give people concrete steps from your action plan of how they can help.
Start with easy things that a lot of people will do, and gradually invite them to become more involved until a few will want to be leaders with you and your initial group.
Keep up to date with the issue.
Find out what new legislation is being proposed.
Get out the vote ! Review candidates' positions and then support the ones that support your cause.
Alternately, Ignore voting and elections entirely and instead work on creating the change yourself through Direct Action (Actions that directly achieve the goals of a movement instead of requesting assistance from the Government).
Celebrate little successes ! People want to feel good that they are making a difference, and sometimes the problem is so big it could take years to solve.
If so, try to identify mini-victories along the way that can be celebrated.
Reflect along the way.
Take time to re-examine your plan to see if it's really accomplishing what you hoped to accomplish.
Make changes if necessary.