thereSnacksMake sure to pack everything that belongs in a particular room together in a room labeled box.
It also makes unpacking easier once you get where you're going.
Start packing one room at a time, packing smaller items first to get them out of the way.
Carefully mark and tape each box so you can find everything when you unpack.
Pack an "Open First" box and include items such as dish soap, a sponge, a roll of paper towels, kleenex, a couple pens, scissors, plastic/paper plates/forks, a bottle opener, bath towels for each family member, one pot, one pan, one plastic stirring utensil, an extra box cutter, etc. Think about small handy items you might want access to before you unpack all boxes.
Keep in mind, people will need to wash their hands, eat, and shower long before you are done unpacking on the other end of the move.
Also, toss in a sugary treat such as life savers or hard candies in case anyone gets really hungry or low blood sugar on move-in day.
Pack a suitcase or box for each member of the family several days in advance.
Include a personal-sized bar of soap, new toothbrush and toothpaste, towel and washcloth, disposable razor if needed, some 'relaxing' clothes (sweats or something similar) and two complete changes of clothes, and anything else you know each person will need during the first few days (while everything else is in boxes).
Keep these boxes or suitcases in a safe place where they won't get mixed in with everything else, perhaps in the car or even farther away (work or a neighbor's house).
Bring them with you in the car or however you are traveling.
Create a "Moving File" with important paperwork you will need throughout your move.
Include in it: moving truck reservation, moving helper payment codes (if applicable), pet veterinarian records, cash for movers tips, hotel reservation, contact information for important people (realtor or landlord), and any really important documents you could need before you have the chance to unpack.
Keep this file in a safe place, such as in your suitcase, where you won't accidentally pack it in a box.
Clean out the kitchen.
Toss away junk and only box things that you use.
Use your kitchen food storage containers for all loose things you find as you empty drawers from the kitchen, desks, or table drawers.
Don't forget to look inside the dishwasher.
Label boxes according to contents and rooms they belong in then securely close or tape them.
Use various sized bags for the same purpose.
Add a sticky note inside each bag noting the contents like "stereo cables" and "pens and pencils".
Place all containers and bags inside a larger box labeled appropriately with room and content.
Begin taking apart any large items and placing all hardware in double-thick Ziploc bags according to contents and room.
Keep all bags in one box along with the proper tools -- allen wrenches, screwdrivers, pliers, etc. This will make it easier to put everything back together when you have moved in.
Make sure you keep the box of hardware and tools in a central place where everyone can find it.
This will make re-assembling much easier.
Place in it the small things like video ear plugs, remote controls, boxes of nails and things you will need immediately after moving in.
Stack the boxes as you are finished filling, taping, and labeling them.
Try to keep them stacked in the rooms that you have finished packing.
Keep all power strips and extension cords and grounded adapters in one specific box; they'll be much easier to find later on.
Very clearly label the hardware box and the extension cord box.
Consider spray-painting both boxes bright yellow or red.
Place all the screws or bolts back into an item after it has been taken apart.
This way, you can connect the bed or put the lampshade back on immediately instead of searching for them.
Look in each room, and make sure that everything has been removed.
Place any last minute items together in one room.