fat.Make a list
Make a checklist of every item you plan to take on your trip : clothing, shoes, toiletries, maps, guidebooks, reading material, and hotel and rental car information.
Include even items you do not intend to pack.
Murphy's Law dictates that if you forget something, it will likely be an important item such as your plane ticket or housekeys.
A good site to check out is http://www.onebag.com/ as it provides a packing checklist and tips.
Check your empty suitcase first
Check your luggage prior to packing to ensure it is empty (especially if the luggage is not yours) as you are responsible for its contents when you pass through customs.
It is better to be safe than sorry.
Once you have packed, consider using tamper evident products to seal your case, so you can check if your luggage arrives without being breached before you go on to clear customs.
A good site to check out for security tips when packing luggage is http://www.securoseal.com/ and it also provides free access to international news on crime affecting travelers in transit.
Review your checklist to determine whether there are any items you can remove to lighten your load.
Will you really need three pairs of shoes?
And two coats?
Consider the weather and what kinds of activities you will be doing.
travel sized toiletries
Buy travel-size containers for your toiletries, regardless of the length of your trip.
Unless you will be in a remote location for weeks, you can always drop into a local shop to restock your supply of soap and toothpaste.
Start packing
Begin packing your luggage, checking off each item on your list as you go.
Pack clothing using the time-honored "roll" technique.
Lay two or three items on top of one another, smooth to flatten, and roll them up like you would a sleeping bag to save space and prevent wrinkles.
For added wrinkle insurance, place a sheet of heavy tissue or packing paper between items of clothing before rolling.
Pack sweaters and underwear in reusable compression bags, which can create up to 75% more space in your luggage.
(They lock in odors, so they also work for storing dirty laundry, but make sure they are dry.)
Enclose toiletry containers in airtight plastic bags to prevent contents from spilling into your suitcase in the event of a leak.
Wrap socks or pajamas around breakable items to cushion them.
Plan to bring a snack on the plane in case you get very hungry.
Bring a snack like a bag of pretzels or something (avoid peanuts as these can cause allergic reactions in other passengers).
Pack it in your small suitcase.
In the other big suitcases pack a diary and a pen you can write in during your trip.
When you come back you will want to see what you did on your trip.
Do not bring any cigarettes because the airport security guards won't let you bring it on the airplane.
Inside the suitcase with the diary and pen, pack one travel size game if you're traveling with someone else.