go-aheadSelect a suitable diaper bag.
The type of diaper bag you use will depend on what you expect from it.
For short trips, a smaller bag will be fine but for longer trips, including car travel, camping, and visiting the in-laws, a larger bag is a must.
When purchasing a diaper bag, check for such features as:
Easy-to-access pockets, plenty of them for various items
Thermally lined pockets to keep food and drink warm or cool
Special compartment for diapers and change mat
Comfortable handles or straps for carrying or wearing - try the bag on in the store to see if it feels right for you
Ability to fit over the stroller or pram - this will take the weight off you and makes it easy to access.
Looks right for you.
If you're a man, you might not want to carry around a diaper bag that's flowery or bright pink.
Plenty of diaper bags come in gender-neutral patterns, or even look like a backpack or courier bag.
Keep a food stock.
If you are not breastfeeding, food and drinks should always be packed, as babies always need their nutrients.
If you are bottle feeding , use a travel container that divides each powder amount and spare travel-sized bottles of water or juice.
If your baby is on solids, choose small travel jars that you can throw out when finished.
Stock up on diapers . Diapers are essential to keep in stock in a diaper bag.
It's recommended to have at least one diaper for each hour you're out, but it's nice to grab a handful, in case of emergencies.
Also, try to get a travel pack of baby wipes.
Keep health essentials in the bag.
Use the side pockets or little compartments for medications, emergency phone numbers, etc. Add Oragel (teething pain gel) or a teething ring, and infant Tylenol (pain relief for infants) - these are both excellent items to leave in the bag.
Finally, some tissues are always handy to have in the bag.
Have extra clothing and blankets.
A good sized blanket is appropriate for a cool environment, a bib or two is excellent for feeding times, and comfortable socks and a baby hat keep the sensitive parts warm and cozy.
You may also want to keep an extra sweatshirt or sweater just for those times when the weather changes drastically.
You don't need to over pack these things; if it's just for a walk in the park, you probably don't need to pack clothes.
Keep your baby entertained.
Bring a toy or two and a favorite hard cover book.
Keep a few pacifiers (dummies) in little sandwich bags - this helps if one drops on the ground, as you'll always have extra.
Bring sanitary wipes and gel.
Anti-bacterial hand gel can be a lifesaver when there isn't a sink nearby.
Sanitary or antibacterial wipes can help clean off a restaurant highchair, the handle of the grocery car, and the restroom changing table.
A towel can also be handy for mopping up spills.
Pack extra plastic bags.
Whether a reused grocery bag, or a snaplock bag, you'll need these spare bags constantly for putting dirty bibs and clothes in, or a soiled diaper.