backpack.BackpackLockerTwo days before your trip, think about what you'll need.
Write them down if you need to.
Check all paperwork and boarding tickets and put them in a place you can remember.
doing this 2 days before instead of the day before or even the day of eliminates stress in finding them.
Better to do it in advance than to rush right before!
Get your suitcases ready.
You will need one rolling suitcase that can fit in the overhead bins, and one backpack for under the seat.
If you use those two instead of one big one, you eliminate having to check any luggage at all, and that also eliminates lost luggage and finding luggage at the baggage claim!
Recharge all your essential devices.
Before you go to bed two days before your trip, plug in all the devices you will be traveling with, such as Cell Phones, iPods/MP3 players, portable game systems, and any other device that requires charging.
Pack it all up the day before your trip ! In the rolling suitcase, pack all of your clothes, toiletries, and items you won't need until you arrive.
In the backpack, pack any items that you don't have room for in the rolling bag as well as items that you may use on the plane.
Load up the car with everyone's bags the night before the trip.
This way, in the morning when you head to the airport, you don't need to do any loading up, just get in the car and go!
Get a good nights sleep the night before, and make sure to get up on time !
The next morning, get up one hour before you need to leave for the airport.
You leave for the airport 1 hour and 20 minutes before your flight.
So you need to get up 2 hours and 20 minutes before the actual flight departure time.
This will give you time to shower, get dressed, and eat a well-balanced breakfast to give you energy for the day ahead.
When you're at the airport, you can go right past the luggage checking area because you only have carry on items !
When you board the plane, first put the rolling suitcase in an overhead bin close to you.
Then sit down and place your backpack under your seat.
When you are in flight, you can have easy access to the backpack, and that is why you packed items you might use in-flight in the backpack.
Upon landing and arriving at the gate, first stand up and put your backpack on.
This is best done while you are still standing in front of your seat.
Then, walk into the aisle and grab your rolling suitcase from the bin.