owners.Find out what's troubling you.
Is someone you sit by preventing you from concentrating perhaps?
If someone is bothering you, passing notes or talking to you a lot and that's distracting you from concentrating, you should definitely fix that.
It's probably best to quietly ignore them, and try and concentrate.
Don't give in and start talking yourself.
When class is over politely explain your reasons and ask them to let you work.
Whatever problem it is, fix it.
Try not to daydream . If you're not paying enough attention in class, is it because there's something specific on your mind?
Try to keep your mind on the class.
Taking notes will help, as you will have to listen to what the teacher is saying intently.
Being more involved in the lesson will also help with this - listen, ask questions, etc. If you feel your mind wandering a little, make sure to keep yourself focused.
Get a good night's sleep before school.
If you're not sleeping well, you should change your sleeping schedule.
Know how much sleep you need and make sure that you get it!
If you're having problems getting to sleep, try doing some exercise during the day, not eating for a couple of hours before going to bed, a warm bath/shower or reading a book.
Going to sleep earlier will have loads of benefits for your health as well as ensuring you are well-rested and awake when you get to class.
Getting a good night's sleep will really help you pay attention and do well in school.
Don't fall asleep in class ! This will mean that you miss some of the lesson and could get in serious trouble - avoid it at all costs.
Falling asleep in class will also mean that you will have to catch up on the work later, and you may be tired for the rest of the day afterwards.
If you feel yourself falling asleep, keep yourself busy.
Do something to keep you awake, be it fiddling with a pencil, pinching yourself, organizing your notes, etc. Try your best to look and feel awake also, which may help, and will also make your teacher less suspicious.
A warm temperature can also make people feel more tired, so take off a layer if you can.
You might also want to ask your teacher if you can go and get a drink.
If they do you can have a little walk, which will make you feel a little more awake, have a drink and maybe splash some of the water on your face.
If you really don't think you can stop yourself falling asleep try and persuade a kind-hearted friend to give you a poke when they see your eyes close!
Make the most of your breakfast.
Remember: breakfast is the most important meal of the day.
Try to get up early and have breakfast every morning, if you can.
If your stomach is rumbling throughout class, then your mind might wander and you won't be paying full attention.
There are loads of different things that you could choose for breakfast - just try and keep it healthy ! More traditional breakfast foods include things like Oatmeal , Muesli , Eggs , Toast , etc. but don't be afraid to try something new and exciting - breakfast doesn't have to be a chore!
Here are some ideas:
Cinnamon Rolls
Breakfast Burritos
Bagels
Traditional Full English Breakfast
Doughnuts
Breakfast Parfaits
French Toast
Mini Breakfast Pizzas
Pancakes
Breakfast Cookies
Waffles