anonymous)Download Darik's Boot and Nuke (DBAN) here . Two different versions (one for PCs and newer Macs, and the other for older Macs) allow DBAN to work on nearly every computer made within the last ten years.
Burn DBAN to a CD.
Since DBAN is an ISO file, you will need to use burning software that can burn ISO files (also known as CD images ).
Simply burning the file onto a CD in the ordinary way is not sufficient.
If you don't see the "ISOLINUX" folder on the burned CD, it won't work and your hard drive will not be erased.
Windows 7 comes with the correct software to burn ISO files; simply double-click the file.
If you are using an older version of Windows, download a program such as BurnCDCC if you don't have suitable CD burning software.
Boot from the CD.
Leave the CD in while you restart the computer you are erasing the hard drive with.
If it doesn't boot up from the CD automatically, you will need to adjust the boot order in the BIOS.
On an Apple Mac, you may need to hold down the "C" key while the computer starts up.
Remove the old hard drive you want to destroy from the computer or external enclosure (such as the outer case around a USB hard drive).
Unscrew all the screws holding the top on.
You will need the T-9 sized wrench for most hard drives.
Sometimes there's an air seal.
You will need to remove this.
Windows
Microsoft SDelete : Secure delete files, directories or sanitize free space.
Wipe File: Overwrites the specific disk space occupied by the file you'd like erased.
DeleteOnClick: Has a "Securely Delete" option to engage a Department of Defense.22-M overwrite on the files.
Eraser: Can be scheduled to perform regular overwrites of empty disc space to catch orphan files.
Mac OS X
Permanent Eraser: Can be used as an alternative to the "Secure empty trash" option.
It overwrites the files 35 times.
Disk Utility: Integrated in Mac OS X. It has an "Erase Free Space..." function that writes over the unused space, 7, or 35 times.
srm: Terminal command that deletes and overwrites files making recovery impossible.
Wipe Package from Ubuntu Unleashed: Adds secure multi-pass file deletion, like DeleteOnClick does in Windows.