Europe)moneyPlan ahead ! Planning a trip can be impatient, but worth it.
Plan a couple weeks ahead and get all the info from Disneyland.com Including the park hours and events that day.
Watch out for blackout dates.
Have a yearly pass?
If you do, make sure you check online to see if the day your planning on going isn't a blackout date, or you won't get in for free.
You'll have to pay a smaller fee than the normal day ticket, but it will still cost you.
Checking to see if it's a blackout date will avoid any confusion or problems at the ticket booth.
Consider getting a yearly pass.
Getting a yearly pass is a good thing, but can also be frustrating and ruin plans.
As you read above about the blackout dates, there are an amount of these on every yearly pass depending on the level.
If you are on the lowest and cheapest level of the yearly pass, there will be numerous amounts of blackout dates to ruin your fun, the more you upgrade your pass, the less amount of blackout dates you have.
(Upgrading a pass is costly.)
When should I get there ? Get to the park as soon as you can to avoid long lines and tough crowds on the weekends and hot days of the summer.
Disneyland.com will tell you the park hours of the day you wish to go.
Be prepared to have a lot of fun.
To have the highest and best level of fun at Disney Land try putting your hands up on the rides!
Every ride at Disney Land was built for you to enjoy the ride, with your hands up!
Safe and fun!
Don't be scared, If you try it, you'll love it!
But look at the warnings for further info.
Be dressed appropriately ? To have the best and most enjoyable level of comfort at Disney Land, You must be wise with your choices!
Tight clothing and uncomfortable shoes will ruin your day.
You won't want to be tugging at your shirt or fixing the straps on your shoes!
You will want to focus on one aspect of Disney Land.
Fun.
Loose clothing and shoes with arch support will save the day!
I found a fast pass!
If you find a fast pass on or near the fast pass dispensers, and no ones around.
You are welcome to use them if they are in your time limit.
I am not promoting stealing, but in a place of a million people, you will not find the owner(s).
You can either take them and rush to the ride, or give them to someone else if you are much too guilty to take them.
I don't want to use fast passes!
If you are stubborn and wish not to use fast passes because of disability to use any others in the time limits given, you are out of luck!
You'll just have to wait in a long line.
Recently i saw a girl in a wheelchair skipping ahead to the front of the line, later that day i saw the girl walking just fine in one of Disney Lands lovely restaurants.
There are many cases of this terrible crime, and if you are caught, you will be in big trouble.
So don't take the chance and don't pretend you're disabled!
It's a crime and it's a terrible way to get what you want!
Do NOT do that!