up!!!Write down your assignments accurately and promptly when they are given.
You can't plan your homework time effectively if you don't know exactly what needs to get done.
Record the following information:
The subject or course in which the work is assigned (for example, Spanish , algebra , French or English )
Know what you're expected to hand in or do and ask if you do not understand (for example, turn in an essay , develop a PowerPoint presentation, or take a test.)
The details of your assignments (for example, double spaced or single spaced, blue ink or black).
Page numbers (which pages you need to read, study, or refer to in order to complete your assignment.)
Due date of the assignment.
Estimate how much time will be needed to complete each assignment . Be realistic.
It's better to block out more time than less.
If you finish early, you can use your bonus time for another subject.
Remember that if you have extra time left over, you can reward yourself by doing something other than homework.
Determine how much time you have available for homework after school for each day of the week.
For example: Monday - 1 hour, Tuesday - 1 1/2 hours, Wednesday - 1/2 hour, etc. Obviously, on days where you have other planned activities, whether it's an extracurricular activity or chores or quality time with your family, you will have less time for homework.
Prioritize your earliest deadlines first (EDF).
This is an optimal dynamic scheduling policy.
If it's humanly possible to meet all the deadlines, earliest deadline first policy will work.
That means, if you get a new assignment due the next day, you need to suspend all work due in 2 days and work on the next day's assignment.
However, if all the deadlines cannot be met, you will miss deadlines randomly with EDF.
To solve this problem, if you cannot meet all the deadlines, use a static priority rate-monotonic policy.
Find the course that releases new homework the most frequently, and prioritize it the highest (do the work first), and so forth.
This is mathematically optimal among all static-priority scheduling policies.
In other words, if ANY static priority scheme can meet all the deadlines, the rate-monotonic static priority scheme will meet all the deadlines, too.
When the static priority scheme misses deadlines, it is deterministic - the lowest priority class assignments will be skipped, so it behaves predictably when you are overloaded.
If certain assignments have the same due date, then start with the one(s) that are hardest or will take the longest.
Break down your homework time.
Look at your assignments and consider how much time you need to devote to each.
Then find time in your homework schedule to get it done, preferably a day early.
If you have a 5-page English paper due on Friday, for example, and you know it's going to take you at most three hours to complete it, then spend one hour on that particular assignment on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday (and remember to make room for errors).
Write in break times.
This will stop you from getting too overwhelmed and frustrated during long stretches of homework time and will also help you to keep your mind focused.
A ten minute break for each hour of homework done is a good guideline.
Use this time to stretch, wash your face, walk around the block, unload the dishwasher for your mom, or get something to drink, or do anything that won't tempt you to delay your return to homework.
Do not extend the time you take to refuel (such as getting your juice) and do not start with activities that relate to goofing off.