checked.Find a hiking partner(s).
If you are experienced, you have the opportunity to introduce a newcomer to the wonders of backpacking.
If you have never been backpacking, you might want to consider going on your first trip with an experienced hiker.
It's best if your camping partners are somewhat compatible in terms of hiking speed, distance they are willing to hike, and camping style.
Some people like to travel lightly and hike long distances.
Others prefer just getting out of sight of the car.
Decide on the duration, timing, and destination of your trip.
Some destinations are very crowded at certain times of year (e.g. around holidays) and others are inappropriate for backpacking at certain times of the year (e.g. the desert in the middle of the summer - not recommended for a first-timer).
Make sure you know where you are going, bring the appropriate maps (topographic), and know how to read them.
This is far more important than many novices realize.
Low resolution national park maps are generally insufficient.
British Ordnance Survey or USGS (US Geologic Survey) maps are available for many popular backpacking areas at sporting goods stores.
They have elevation contours and are more accurate and reliable than more "cartoonish" maps.
Carry a compass and know how to read it and use it with your map.
Plan your route.
Decide if you are doing a "loop" hike, "out and back" or an "end to end".
The latter usually requires leaving a car at both ends.
Consider the terrain, weather, and the experience and conditioning of your group when planning how many miles you will travel each day.
Experienced hikers in good shape can do 10-25 miles per day, depending on terrain.
Novices and weekend warriors should plan on 6-12 miles.
Don't get overambitious.
Shoot for less rather than more so you can take time to enjoy the sights.
Determine the approximate area where you will camp each night ahead of time.
Try to plan your trip so that you camp close to a reliable water source each night.
Check to see if your destination requires permits or other advance preparation.
Camping often requires a permit, available for a small fee payable as cash only.
Check local regulations for the area you wish to choose as a destination.
Most National Parks and other public lands have guidelines specific to their environments (e.g., Yosemite requires the use of bear-proof canisters for food).
Find out local fire regulations.
Many areas prohibit fires during dry periods.
At other times, they may only be allowed in specific locations (typically fire rings).
Never, ever, leave a fire unattended.
Do not light a fire unless you have enough water available to extinguish it thoroughly.
As a precaution, clear a 15-foot (~5m) circular area around your fire, to prevent the wind from igniting any materials outside of your fire pit.
Carry more than enough water to get you from one source to the next.
Water is heavy, but critical.
If you are using a water filter, bring replacement parts, including replacement filters.
They often clog with sediment, or just plain break.
Plan meals with your partners.
Choose food like reconstituted soups and stews that are made with water.
Pasta is a commonly eaten hiking food.
It can be helpful for everyone to be responsible for their own snacks but to have a communal dinner.
Check your equipment inventory to make sure all gear is in working order.
Give yourself time to test equipment and replace/repair anything that is not working properly.
Remember, if an item breaks, you will still need to haul it back.
Check your closet for all the necessary clothing for the conditions you expect to encounter.
Remember, dressing in layers allows you to be comfortable in many different weather conditions.
Even though it might be warm when you hit the trailhead doesn t mean that the weather will remain the same throughout the day.
Mountains are notorious for volatile and quick-changing weather systems: many of them severe.
Even if it is 90 degrees when you head out, pack a light bag with rain gear, or at least a coat.
Compare gear with hiking partners and share what you can.
The group may only need one water filter, stove, set of pots/pans, etc. Consider duplicating vital items but having two different people carry them - first aid kit, compass, water filter.
Leave a detailed itinerary with someone who is not going on the trip, including your route, inventory, areas you plan to stay, and when you expect to return.
Be sure to contact them after you have safely returned.