addressPick a place.
Where are you going to have a party?
Will it be a big event, or a little get together?
This will help you decide.
Decide on a theme.
Will it be for an occasion?
If so, think what will please the guest of honor.
Determine a date/time for your party.
Decide on a budget . Are you able to spend a lot of money on this party or just a little?
Discuss with anyone else who is going to be involved with the budget.
Find a date , if it's that kind of party.
If you don't have a boyfriend/girlfriend, then invite someone who you really click with.
Do not, however, depend on this element to keep you company throughout the night.
You're the host so you ought to mingle with everyone invited if you can.
Take into consideration who it is you want to invite to your party.
Not everyone wants to dance , not everyone wants to listen to the music, some people want to talk and relax.
Accommodate for different interests and levels of social comfort with space planning if it is possible, and if applicable, different age groups.
Start picking the people.
Only invite guests that you want.
Only invite people who respect you, not kiss-ups.
Invite people you would like to get to know better, and if you want your party to be big, tell them to bring their friends.
Get as accurate a count as you can before the party so as to make certain you have the space, parking, food and drink to accommodate.
Make invitations or buy them.
Pass them out within a reasonable time frame of notice.
If you plan on instructing your invitees to bring friends, don't send out the invitations too soon or you could end up with a bigger party population than you can handle.
Determine what food to provide.
Your food choice packs a big punch in your party.
If you don't know what to get, ask around to see what your future party-attendees would like.
Do not neglect drinks or chilled storage for these drinks.
Don't up the booze too much.
You don't want your place smelling like a dump.
What's a party without music ? Pick music that you think will be most agreeable to the spirit of your party and your guests.
It's a good idea to have an iTunes window open on your computer so you can download tunes that guests suggest.
If you don't have the money for iTunes and don't have a lot of your own tunes, ask your guests to bring their own.
You could also play a radio station that has whatever is hot, and call in with requests!
Set the mood/tone of the party with your music, lighting, decoration and attire.
If you want to have an energetic dance environment, have music, strobe lights, lasers, fog machines and maybe some video synchronized with your music.
Clean your house and clean yourself . Nobody likes a dirty party.
It's a good idea to have some cleaning stuff around, and stain stick just in case someone spills on themselves or your furniture.
Make sure there is enough toilet paper!
It may sound weird, but you don't want the only memory of your party to be an empty tube, and you really don't want someone you may not know using your hand towels.
Have some party games set up.
This does not mean what it used to with pin the tail on the donkey or spin the bottle.
Some games of interest may be:
Scene It: A DVD-based game where players answer trivia questions about TV shows or movies.
The Real Game of Life: This is a board game with a wicked twist that isn't all sugar, spice and everything as players deal with divorced parents, mediocre jobs/income, and marriage.
It can be a real laugh.
Halo: This game is ONLY available on Xbox 360, but is extremely fun when playing multiplayer.
I would recommend it for the Boys, but some girls are interested in it too.
There are Three Game types you can play on this game.
Forge Mode: You can spawn any vehicle or weapon or equipment or scenery whenever you want to use it.
Custom Games, I like this one because, unlike forge, you don't get all the guns and vehicles you want instantly, you need skill, I would recommend playing this if their are more people.
And Lastly, there's Matchmaking (Xbox Live is required) In matchmaking you play online against other people around the world, I would recommend this one if less people are coming over.
If you have more than 4 people coming over I would recommend taking turns or doing a System Link: That is where you hook up two Xbox 360's together and play against each other.
If you want to do this just ask a friend if he can bring his Xbox over.
And Lastly, Before the Party Make Several Map Variant and Game Variants ( Or Download Some to you Xbox via http://Bungie.net ) so your friends wont get bored playing A normal Map, another fun option is to have everyone make their own bases on forge than save and play it on custom games.
VERY lastly, make sure you try the infection game type, it is extremely fun
Rock Band: This game is available on multiple game systems with the objective of playing as members of a band with the use of the guitar, microphone and drum kit included with the game.
Guitar Hero series: This can be a one or two player game depending on which edition you choose.
Like Rock Band, it uses its own controllers of the guitar nature to play through the game's levels.
Dance Dance Revolution  : This can be one or two player depending on what controllers you have available.
Step to the music as directed by the arrows on the screen.
Even if only a few people play this game, depending on which edition you choose, can provide some great music.
Have plans to address rules and guest safety.