design)Prepare a detailed budget for your wedding.
Make a rough estimate of how much you can afford to spend on each item and try to purchase items that suit the budget.
This would help you in keeping a track on your expenditure.
If possible, try holding your wedding on any day except Saturday.
The rates of everything right from DJs, the hall to the photographers is much higher on Saturdays.
Try to fix the wedding in the months of January to March as you can take advantage of various discount deals during this period.
Having your wedding in the peak season of June means you may shoot well past your budget since this is the time when the prices are at their highest.
Make your own invitation cards by taking the print out of beautiful designs from the net.
Wedding is a private ceremony.
Hence there is no need to invite each and every person you know on earth.
Send invitations to close relatives and friends only.
Don t waste precious money on hiring wedding planners.
They charge a bomb for the work which can be done free of cost by your cousins, relatives and friends.
Instead of decorating the wedding venue with expensive flowers, you can always use colorful balloons.
They come cheap and make the atmosphere jovial.
Along with balloons, you can also use lace and ribbons which would make the venue even more spectacular.
You can again save money on flowers by opting for candles instead of elaborate bouquet as table centerpieces.
Beautiful candles would light up the whole place, giving it a very romantic touch and this would bring down your costs as well.
In fact you can easily make pretty candles yourself or get your friends to help you out.
Disposable cameras are the best substitute for a professional cameraman.
Place them on the table and let your relatives and friends click photographs themselves.
And if the idea of disposable cameras doesn t appeal to you, you can hire photography students.
They can do a great job in a much lesser amount.
Serve delicious food in a buffet style as it would be cheaper than an elaborate sit-down dinner.
Make sure food is appetizing and guests would not mind self-serving at all.
Buy the dress.
Online bridal shops are the best place from where you can buy elegant bridal gowns at discounted prices.
Online stores contain a vast collection of bridal dresses in different styles and designs and which you can browse from the comfort of your home.
Besides, online bridal stores also offer attractive discounts and clearance gowns.