repay.Help change members of government and laws by the means that the country allows to fit your understandings and needs.
Be productive and helpful to others.
Create Jobs and Create a Job for Yourself as well as try to Become an Entrepreneur and protect and create opportunity if possible, and so don't make excuses , but do what ever is necessary to keep food on the table and shelter.
Be innovative , be creative... as best you can.
Cope with your employment needs, get training, education, seek jobs and Cope With Unemployment , and while seeking employment get WIC and Food Stamps , use unemployment benefits and plan your next moves.
It shouldn't last.
So you have to solve the problems.
Consider moving to a nation or state which provides extensive programs for those who may not be successful in working and earning enough.
California, Oregon, Massachusetts and New York may be good options.
Choose your city carefully, as many cities have a nice array of housing programs, etc. The more the city is offering, the more you can get, as long as you have chosen to live in the right one!
Work as you can : if you are to be a "welfare" or "unearned assistance" recipient --if you make more than the arbitrary amount deemed as a minimum by the government, you could lose benefits.
Know the amounts.
Check with the government agencies in your state or local area.
They are full of people who know the rules, and they will help guide you so that you don't accidentally make enough money that you will have to pay tax.
Paying tax is a good way to lose money, so you don't want to do that.
Work and earn being sure to stay within the government limits.
You may get to get back or keep more of what you make, if you are careful not to earn too much.
Don't get too excited : about working harder or being more motivated.
It may not pay, if you want to receive entitlements.
The harder you work, and the more time you spend working, the more money you get.
This sounds good, until you realize that accumulating any amount of money at all can knock you out of eligibility for all kinds of programs.
Work hard : Try volunteering, if you are a workaholic and just can't seem to stop being productive.
There is no reason that working hard has to get in the way of collecting state benefits, as long as you don't get paid for what you do.
Work in Government : Here, you can get state benefits, and you often can't be fired.
Government workers are not always expected to be particularly hard-working or motivated.
Government structures government jobs with some protections for the worker.
They don't want you to lose the job because of lacklustre performance and they don't usually have any pesky sales goals or anything else to measure you by.
So you can get away with doing very little, and still collect a nice paycheck.
Retire early.
Even if you have lived a productive life as a high-earning doctor or something, you can stop at any time and collect the benefits the state may offer you when not employed.
This can lead to more time with your family, etc., so don't knock it.
But again, you may have to limit the assets you hold.
Be sure to work with an attorney to gift your assets to your children.
Once you have given everything away, you get closer to becoming eligible for all kinds of government programs.
Many middle class Americans help their elderly parents to get on to Medicaid programs in this manner.
It is legal, if you follow strict rules, and will allow the parent to go into a state-funded nursing home.
Nursing homes cost money, so they are a drain on the resources you may have built up over your life.
Some people, will move assets from the parent to the child about three to five years before the parent is expected to need nursing home care.
Demand More Politically.
Join your local political action group or volunteer for your union or party if that works for you.
They will often pay you to show up at health care rallies and other events, as long as you agree to chant loudly what you demand.
They will provide a bus and free food, many times.
Community action groups are looking for people like you, because when you show up and state why you agree with that group, that gives the community action group a reason to exist.
Contact Your Representatives : demand more generous housing programs, more food giveaways, free dental care, whatever.
Governments are happy to tax their citizens in order to develop more and more generous programs for the people who don't find it possible to work for one reason or another, so do not miss this avenue.
You can write or call or just show up at their offices and plead your case.
Point out that you don't have money, and that justice dictates that the government protect your fair chance, such as for equal opportunity in employment.
Keep your planned effort as needed so that when welfare payments are increased, you may expect to get more without working more.
Work may not be desirable especially if you get more as is.
Understand that one may get little thanks as a provider under a welfare system.
Part of being a happy member of a welfare state is not expecting anyone to thank you for your dependability.
Work has it rewards.
No one need recognize you for being responsible.
Of course, government will try to tax income that you demonstrate, and will make new taxes for you, as if the assets you are holding are proof that you have ended up being at the right place, educated, trained and finding employment.
You got your share, and this may be shared in the welfare system.
Consider moving to a lower taxed state : Choose to live in a state which does not provide many government programs, such as North Dakota, or Idaho or New Hampshire, Texas or Florida, and other southern and western states.
Some of these are the most affordable states to live in, and they impose the lowest taxes on their citizens.
Check with the Heritage Foundation.
They publish a nice ranking.
Lower you expectations, if you are a provider : Adjust your standard of living to have less cash take home after higher taxes.
Work and live smarter : Reduce money that you currently spend on the essentials and other things.
Don't buy the better foods or clothing as much as you used to because you may be unable to afford them--if you must pay for people who do not earn above the government guideline.
Actively and carefully keep an eye on following the laws as they are subject to change, and whatever you do should be legal.
Look for ways to have less taxable gross and net income : If you are a provider, you might pay lower taxes.
There are ways to do this that may take planning and creativity:
Barter for non-monetary products : You may gain compensation that may not be taxable.
Bartering may work for many things--food, clothing, haircuts, cars and housing.
Own less taxable property : The more you own, the more taxes you pay.
With homes not always being a good investment, seek to leave less of a taxable footprint for the government to tax.
Receive pretax benefits--where you are employed.
Whatever you can be compensated without showing cash income will work to your advantage to pay lower taxes.
Get a company car with gas provided for you and allow your cash income to stay the same or be reduced a little so that taxes rates may be lower on your income.
Get company provided meals : Do this when working overtime or on the road, or as provided in the law to reduce your income.
Consider registering a charitable foundation : Contribute toward it heavily, if charitable donations are still beneficial in this sense.
You must be careful how you relate to the foundation, but having the foundation buy a home and rent it to you for reasonable non-profit amount could be good if you perform charitable work there.
Start your own home business : Take your own income and redistribute it to your employees who will be mostly family members.