investment.Understand that hygiene is king ! - Buyers are more sensitive than mother-in-laws when it comes to cleanliness.
Nothing kills a sale quicker than dirt and grease in the kitchen.
Deep cleaning a kitchen is a chore but because it works, it s worth the effort.
To get a for sale standard of cleanliness it s recommended you:
Wipe down all work tops
Clean the sink & taps
Clean the floor
Clean the inside of the fridge
Clean the inside of the oven
Organize the contents of all cupboards
Empty the trash bin
De-Clutter ! - Concentrate on the counter tops because buyers like to see lots of clear workspace.
Put away all appliances, dishes, cookbooks etc. Next, turn your attention to the fridge & the cupboards.
Throw away as much as possible (or box it up for the move) and keep what's left neat & ordered.
Take a Critical Look at the Walls ! - As with the rest of the house, a light neutral paint job is the safest & most effective option.
However, totally neutral kitchens can sometimes look a little too bland.
Two or three rows of quality tiles can double as a splash back and an effective way to add color.
If you already have wall tiles & they need replacing, don t hesitate just because it looks like a tricky job - 9/10 times new tiles are easy to apply straight over the old ones.
Take a Critical Look at the Cabinets ! - If the doors are made of dark wood and make the room feel small and oppressive.
Fix this by re-painting the doors in a light neutral color.
don't use brushes to paint trim, doors or cabinets use foam rollers.
you can see the brush strokes when the paint is dry which to some people looks like a "patch job".
take your time some cabinet finishes do not take paint very well or the paint will peel and chip very easily.
use a bit of sand paper to scuff the finish down before you paint.
If there are too many cabinets and the room feels boxy and oppressive.
Fix this by taking off one or two of the doors and convert the cupboard into open display shelves.
This will give the room breathing space.
If the doors are outdated or damaged, this is where the classic Changing Rooms trick works a treat.
Why buy new cabinets when you can just buy new doors at 15 - 25 a pop?
Together with new door handles (simple stainless steel always looks good) it s one of the most cost-effective ways to modernize a dated kitchen.
Take a Critical Look at the Worktops ! - If your worktops are battered, chipped, burnt or scratched, consider replacing.
Laminate worktops are the cheapest option and in this day and age actually look rather good (about 50 for 4m from Ikea).
Create a Place to Eat ! - Because modern living habits have changed over the years, today s buyers are looking for flexible space.
In a kitchen that just means finding space for a table & a couple of chairs.
This shows that the room is more than just a space for food preparation.
It makes the space more valuable in the eyes of your buyers.
Leafy green plants in a modern vase or pot.
Designer kettle & toaster (buy them for your new house but put them on display now).
A stylish bowl filled with fresh fruit.
A display of designer Italian olive oil bottles.
Contemporary glass pasta jars.
A thick wooden chopping board complete with crusty loaf