home.Start now.
No matter what your financial situation, as long as you have debts or regular bills, you should prioritize them.
Don't wait until you're about to lose your house or are otherwise in a serious debt crisis, because by that point you'll probably need more drastic solutions.
Prioritizing your debts, along with making and following a budget , can keep you from getting buried in debt and can help you solve minor debt troubles.
Get all your paperwork together.
In order to prioritize you need to at least know the interest rates (and, sometimes, other fees), balances, and minimum monthly payments for each debt you have.
You may also need to review other terms and conditions of your loans and credit cards.
A calculator is invaluable for crunching the numbers.
Be sure to consider fees that may affect your priorities.
For example, some credit cards have annual fees that you can avoid if you pay off and cancel the card.
Some loans have prepayment penalties, which may make quickly paying those loans off less cost-effective than it would be if you had only to consider the interest rates.
If the interest rate on a particular account is subject to change, as is the case with credit cards that have introductory rates, be sure to consider this.
Your priorities may need to change when the rates change.
When prioritizing by interest rates, use the effective interest rate, the rate that takes into account any tax deduction.
This is usually applicable to mortgages or student loans.
Since interest payments on these loans are tax-deductible, the cost of such loans is actually a bit less than the stated interest rate.
Calculate the effective rate by multiplying the stated interest rate byminus your income tax bracket.
For example, if you're in the 30% tax bracket and you have a mortgage with a stated rate of 10%, the effective interest rate is 7.0% (10*(1-0.30))
Strategy: Pay off debts fast.
Debts can most quickly be paid off using a "snowball" technique.
Put your debts in order from the one with the highest interest rate to the one with the lowest.
Pay the minimum monthly payments on all your debts except for the one with the highest interest rate.
Make sure to keep all your accounts in good standing.
Pay as much as you can on the first debt.
In general, the quickest way to pay off all your debts is to first pay off the debt with the highest interest rate (usually a credit card or personal loan), so each month you'll want to pay as much as possible on that debt.
Focus on the debt with the next-highest interest rate once you've paid off the one with the highest rate.
Once you've paid off that one, proceed to the next-highest, and so on until you're debt-free.
Example:
You owe $.00 on your Acme Bank credit card with a 13% interest rate, and it has a $70.00 minimum payment per month.
You owe $2500.00 on your FoosBank credit card with a 10% interest rate, and it has a $200.00 minimum payment per month.
You can afford to pay an extra $100.00 per month to your credit cards.
Pay $200.00 per month on the Acme card, and keep on paying the minimum payment on the other one.
Once you have paid Acme down to $0.00, apply that $200.00 a month to the FoosBank card - now you are paying $400.00 per month on the FoosBank balance, and it will be paid off within 5 months if you kept it up to date while paying off the other card!
That's the "snowball" effect.
Strategy: Prioritize to stay afloat.
If you're having trouble making ends meet, take care of the bare necessities, like food, first.
Keep a roof over your head.
If you own your home, the mortgage payment is your highest-priority debt.
In the U.S. lenders will typically begin foreclosure proceedings after three missed payments, though this may vary.
Even if you get just a month or two behind, you may have trouble getting your payments back up-to-date, which can cause you problems down the road.
If you rent, you can usually be evicted after just one missed payment, and then you'll be faced with finding another place to live with a huge blemish on your record.
Pay your utilities.
Power, water, and other utility companies will usually give you some leeway in missing payments, but if you get too far in arrears, they'll shut off your service, which can make everyday living very difficult and can also make it more costly to get service in the future.
If you can't pay your bills in full, call the company and see if you can work out a payment plan.
They're usually very accommodating.
Keep your car.
If you need your car to get to work or to find work, it's important that you keep your payments up-to-date.
Finance companies can repossess cars fairly easily, and in many cases they don't even have to give you notice.
Make sure to pay your insurance, as well, because it's the law and because if you don't the lender will add their own insurance, which will cost you far more while only protecting the lender's interest.
Do your best to save money on gas.
Consider carpooling.
Have you considered living without a car ?
Pay child support.
Failure to pay child support can land you in jail.
Pay taxes.
Failure to pay property taxes can cause your property to be seized.
Failure to pay income tax, in extreme cases, especially when criminal activity has taken place, can send you to prison.
Pay student loans.
The government backs student loans, and if you go into default they can take collection actions that other creditors can't.
Pay your lower priority debts.
Credit cards, loans secured by household objects, personal loans, and store charge cards are not high priorities.
Pay the minimums on all these if you can, but if you have to choose between your credit card bill or your mortgage, choose your mortgage.
Call your credit card companies and tell them you need either deferment or lenience.
If you call and let them know you are in trouble, most are willing to work out a payment plan by temporarily lowering your minimums or deferring payment for a couple of months until you are working again, etc. If you blow them off, though, they will be angry and less apt to work with you.
Pay medical bills.
Medical bills offer a bit more leniency than most other kinds of loans, and even if they go on your credit report they're generally looked at differently than other missed payments.
Bring accounts up-to-date as soon as you can.
Once you've gotten back on your feet, get all your accounts current if you've fallen behind on them.
Focus on the ones on which you are the furthest behind.
Once everything's caught up, start prioritizing to pay debts off quickly.
Strategy: Improve your credit score.
Start by paying off revolving credit accounts (such as credit cards) with the highest balances relative to their credit limits.
The "utilization ratio," the percentage of your available credit that you are using, is a key factor in determining your credit score, and lenders use it to determine your ability to pay future debts.
See more in How to Repair Your Credit.