markercolored ring binders
Prepare for your redecorate the night before . Make sure you have a display folder to keep important sheets, a place to put all the rubbish and a few more items to decorate your locker with.
Think about how you want your locker to look when you open it's door - do you want your books to be neatly lined up in a row individually, or all the books for each subjects put inside a Ring Binder?
If you decide to use ring binders, buy a few cheap colored ones that match the color of your locker at a Dollar Store.
Choose a theme for your locker . It doesn't necessarily have to be that your theme matches everything.
For example, if you have the theme 'Blue', not everything has to be blue.
If your locker is blue, and you have white ring binders, it matches well.
If your theme is 'Under the Sea', not everything has to have a fish on it.
It could be you have a blue locker and some bubble stickers and your books!
Remember less is more.
When it comes to decorating, clean out your locker first.
Remove any clutter - if you find any old rented books that you don't need anymore, return them, if you find old scrap pieces of paper, throw them out.
Pile up all your needed subject books outside of the locker so you've got it completely empty.
Then, wipe down your locker quickly.
This has to be a fast but thorough process.
If it smells like dirty gym socks, spray some nicer smelling fragrance into it, or get an air freshener.
Scrub away the remains of any old stickers with soapy water or a good cleaning spray,and make sure that it's grime free.
A pile of books
Start to put in your books , but do it neatly ! If you're using ring binders, put them into a colored order.
This will be easier on the eyes and make your locker look a hundred times better.
If you aren't using ring binders, line up your books in the type of book, or on the subject.
If you're lining them up by the type of book, this means that any plastic slip folders would go together, all notebooks would go together, all the textbooks would go together etc. Alternatively, you could line them up by subject.
First would be English, then Math, then History, then Geography etc. If the books look too bulky next to each other, use ring binders.
They are much easier to use because when you need a subject, you pull out the binder and all the books are there, and they are much better when you are trying to redecorate your locker.
There is also a lot less clutter because it would all be tucked away in the ring binders.
There are all types of sizes, colors and patterns, so find one that best suits the theme you're going for!
Collect some of the items you brought to match your theme.
If your theme was 'Blue', and you had white binders to match, you might have brought say a small, square, blue digital clock with some white polkadots on it, or you brought a small mirror for the door with a blue frame.
If you brought photos, try and match them with your theme by making a simple frame for them with cardboard.
Get some cardboard to match your theme, for example white for the 'Blue' theme (not all the items have to be the color of your theme - it's whatever matches), and put a backing to your photos that extends about 2 cm from the edge of it - so your photos are both protected and are in sync with the theme.
Add some organizational objects to keep you organized - a bulletin board and a whiteboard are good ideas to have somewhere.
At some cheap stores, you can buy a small half-whiteboard half-bulletin board that is meant for hanging in lockers.
Not only do these look great in your locker, they help organize your school life and schedule.
If you do get a bulletin board, pin up your timetable, and color co-ordinate it.
This will help you learn your timetable easier so every time you open your locker, you have a bright and inviting timetable.
Even if you don't have a bulletin board in your locker, stick a timetable on the door with a magnet.
Being organized is very important, especially during school.