products.===For young adults===
Talk to your parents calmly.
Explain your reasons for staying at home, but emphasise that you aren't going to depend on them forever.
Tell them that you will do everything you can to gain full independance - and stick to it!
Make a plan.
Write everything down carefully and clearly.
Leave it for them to find, then stick to what you've written.
Make sure you all have a copy.
Get out there ! Find a job, go for interviews, look at houses, do whatever you need to do to get out and establish full independance.
Don't ever give up.
Should this be impossible / unlikely to move out within a year or two, earn your keep by paying board, contributing to paying bills or doing jobs around the house such as cooking, washing clothes, vacuuming or lawn mowing etc. It doesn't mean you'll be a Cinderella until you move out, but find a fair balance to pay your costs.
Continue to keep to your plan of moving out as it shows your parents you are working towards your goal.
If you feel that you need more space, spend more free time in parks, visiting friends, going shopping or doing something thats fun.
Be happy ! Have a positive attitude and you'll have more chance at success.
=== For older Adults===
In a perfect world, this might be an extension or "granny flat" where you live.
But thats not always the case.
Adults and the elderly often get left into the spare bedroom and not involved much in the day to day running of the household.
If this sounds familiar the best solution is discussing your feelings politely but find out some way to keep your own individuality.
This might be:
Joining a social club, these can be hobby, religion, social interest or health clubs.
Or even your local pub (providing it doesn't make you feel depressed).
If you live on somewhere with a backyard, request a small private patch to grow your own plants and get a comfortable table & chair, something to read and enjoy your time.
Decorate your room, this might be with paintings, photos, small decorative things etc. If you can decorate the room its much easier for you to feel comfortable in.
Learn to use a computer so you may shop online and not have to rope in relatives to pick things up.
Using a computer is something anyone can do and is a real confidence booster and a way to keep contact with old friends by email.
Find a balance of indoor time and outdoor time - being cooped up in one room no matter how nice it is can be a prison in a short time.
Go to night or day classes to learn something you are keen on.
Invest in a motorised scooter so you can travel comfortably on short trips.
Join in or do whatever you can do, this might be cooking the odd meal or looking after kids to let other members go out for their own time.
If its impossible to drive many local communites offer services that can collect you (or have subsidised taxi services).
For shared facilities, (kitchen, bathroom etc), find out the busy times (eg - before school/work for bathrooms) and use them in the quiet times, this can avoid potential conflicts.