yardCashRead Set up a Fundraising Event .
Determine your menu.
A fairly simple and popular menu is spaghetti, salad, garlic bread, and drinks.
Consider including a table of donated desserts that are sold for donations of any amount.
This has several advantages.
It raises more money for your event; it allows people who can t be at the event to volunteer by baking things ahead of time; it is simple to run and will probably get more donated money than a regular bake sale.
Decide if other events will be run with the dinner, such as fundraising games or a silent auction . Google fundraising games or specific games, such as 50-50 to get ideas for these.)
Determine if entertainment will be part of the evening.
Make a list of eating utensil supplies.
Guess how many people you think will show up and buy more than that.
Buy from a store with a generous return policy.
If you don t want to use disposable supplies, make sure you have adequate dishwashing facilities and volunteers.
If you go with disposable, make sure you have adequate garbage bags, cans, and facilities.
Make a list of food needed.
Make sure you have adequate refrigerator space for anything that needs to be kept cool.
Brainstorm about other needed supplies, such as paper towels, and make a list.
Go through the whole event in your mind and consider supplies and items for things such as cooking, serving, and cleaning up.
Find a store near your event that will be open during the event for emergency supply runs.
If the store requires a membership, make sure you have a member available to make runs to that store during the event.
Recruit and organize volunteers.
If possible designate people in charge of each crew (set up, kitchen, pay table, serving tables, cleanup).
If possible, have those crew leaders determine responsibilities for each volunteer.
Volunteers need (and want) clear, simple instructions on what to do.
Make a list of volunteer jobs with descriptions (if needed) and a place to note the people who have signed up for each job.
People often volunteer at the last moment.
A list makes it easier to tell them where and how they can help.
Don t worry too much if your cleanup crew seems to lack enough volunteers.
There will be people hanging around at the end of your event.
Just announce that helpers are needed to clean up and direct them to the person in charge of the cleanup.
Solicit donated desserts a few days in advance, if you plan to have a bake sale.
Have your bakers put portion-sized desserts on disposable plates covered with plastic wrap.
Have disposable plates and plastic wrap available for people who forget to do that.
Figure out what you plan to do with leftover food from the event.
Prepared or opened things can t be returned.
Refrigerated items probably also can t be returned or might be accepted and then tossed.
(The store can t assume the items were refrigerated properly.)
Options for leftover food include giving it to volunteers, leaving it for the next fundraiser (if appropriate), or donating it to a food bank, local shelter, or soup kitchen.
In any case, you ll need containers for storing prepared food.
If nothing else is available, consider getting some large heavy duty baggies for this.
(You may need boxes or something similar to carry several of these.)
On the day of the event, start getting ready at least two to three hours before.
You ll need the time not only for setting up but also to allow for any mistakes.
Designate someone who is willing to go to the store to buy forgotten items.
If you are buying things at a warehouse store that requires a membership, make sure that person has a membership.
And make sure that person has a cell phone and that a key person at the event has that number.
After they have left for a supplies run, you ll surely find something else that needs to be picked up.
If you re making pasta, you should start heating the water early.
It takes a long time to get a huge pot of water to the boiling point.
One option is to make some noodles early, toss them with olive oil to keep them separated, and keep them warm in a crock pot or other heated serving appliance.
If you are cooking pasta, one of the hardest things to do is getting the water hot.
If you planned to use a new pot of water each time but are getting overwhelmed, seriously consider using the same pot of water for more than one batch of pasta.
It s not how pasta is supposed to be cooked, but you don t want hungry people waiting around for an hour.
Have someone designated for kitchen cleanup.
Once things get started cleaning will need to be done pretty much continuously.
Set up your serving areas and eating tables and chairs.
Consider taping banquet roll (disposable tablecloth) to the tables.
Your layout should be flexible in case you get more people than expected and need to move things around.
Consider if some condiments, such as salt and pepper, work better at the eating tables than at the serving tables.
For example, if you are serving pasta, consider putting small containers of Parmesan cheese at the eating tables.
(Even simple drinking cups filled with cheese work well.)
Make sure garbage cans are scattered around the room, especially if you use throwaway plates and utensils.
And make sure each garbage can has some extra bags in case one or more needs to be emptied during the event.
Prepare coffee and other drinks as early as reasonably possible.
Set up your dessert bake sale table, if you decided to have one.
Make a sign to draw attention to the table.
Put a donation jar or bucket on the table with a sign explaining what it is and how people should pay.
Set up entry pay tables.
This is a good place for a sign to better explain for what the event is raising money.
Put a donation jar or bucket at this table to make it easy for people to toss in money or checks.
Make a sign that tells people who or what to make checks out to.
Once the event starts, make sure someone is monitoring the serving tables and telling the kitchen crew which food items are running low.
This is especially important if the kitchen and serving areas are not close to each other.
Make sure someone is checking for spills and full garbage cans.
Make sure cleaning cloths or paper towels and extra garbage bags are handy.
Have a volunteer take pictures and/or video of the event.
This is especially nice if the event is for someone who can t be there.
Some tech-savvy volunteer could burn a CD or DVD to give to people.
Also consider having a big card made up for attendees to sign, if the event is for a person or family.
After the event, make sure you turn off all ovens, stoves, and anything else you used for heating.
When you re getting ready to leave double check that you ve cleaned out the refrigerator.
Clean up the eating and serving areas and put everything away.
Make sure you properly clean the pots and anything else that needs cleaning.
You don t want anyone getting sick from improperly cleaned items.
Count the money that night or the next day.
Keep some aside to pay people who bought things for the event but haven t been reimbursed.
Deposit the rest in the appropriate account.
In the following days, return any items you borrowed.
If a volunteer did take pictures or video, make sure those get distributed.