(optional)Do something you enjoy.
If you like it, it's more likely you'll keep at it.
Not all workouts are at a gym: try biking, inline skating, rowing, skateboarding, swimming, hockey, or a rugby team; even dancing in your bedroom with an ipod.
Enjoyment is the key to sticking with it.
Make time to exercise.
Make a conscious effort to replace some unnecessary and not particularly enjoyable habit, like watching a TV show that isn't very good, with an exercise-involving activity.
Rather than worrying about fitting exercise into your schedule, you can just feel a sense of accomplishment content in the knowledge you haven't made your schedule any worse.
Make a commitment.
Don't just make a mental promise to yourself.
Get a journal.
Write down what you want to accomplish, and set a time frame for reaching your goals.
Make a contract, and sign it.
Include pictures of your dream dress, or smaller size pants, if it helps you define your goals.
Don't be afraid to shoot for the stars.
As Walt Disney said, If you can dream it, you can do it.
If you've never worked out before, or haven't worked out in a long time, don't expect you'll be able to work out for an hour a day--six days a week!
Try starting out with three, 30-minute sessions of aerobic exercise per week.
Then after two weeks, incorporate two weight lifting sessions in-between your aerobic days.
You can even start with just a few minutes each day.
That can be enough to motivate you to keep going.
Spread the word ! Tell your husband, wife, sister, friends--anyone.
We always do better when we think someone else is watching!
Don't be obnoxious and remind everyone all the time, but let your close friends and relatives know about your goals.
Ask them to encourage you once-in-a-while.
Sometimes, it's nice to remind your grandma not to stock her kitchen with all those scrumptious goodies.
Get out the charts.
You can weigh yourself, although weight is not always an accurate view of fitness.
Record your weight and BMI.
Though these aren't precise measures of progress, it's sweet to look back when you're done with it all, and feel satisfied.
Take measurements of your waist, hips, thighs, and neck.
These are much more accurate.
A "before" picture would be fun afterwards!
Learn.
If you are shooting to lose weight, you must learn to eat healthy.
Don't "fall into" a diet.
You would "fall out" eventually.
Things like weight watchers can help you learn, but I simply recommend developing a lifestyle you will want to keep, and using your common sense.
See tips for more help.
Drink water ! Drinking water is absolutely the best thing you can do for your body.
Always bring water to your workout sessions.