make!Do not neglect your lifestyle diet.
It is unhealthy to go on any crash diets any time of your life.
Far better to make a realistic assessment of your dress size for the wedding and not starve yourself into insanity every day of your life leading up to the wedding.
If you want to lose weight, see your doctor about putting together a sensible slow weight-loss diet.
It may not bring the astounding results you want but it will ensure you are healthy.
Slow down.
You cannot get everything arranged quickly.
A big event takes time and it takes the help of others too.
Enlist people in your family and among your friends to help out with the planning needs.
Give them deadlines to get back to you well before the date, so that you don't need to worry about their progress or lack thereof.
Don't fret and lose sleep over things that you can't change and things that you haven't yet found.
The "perfect" wedding dress is there but it may take some lateral thinking to reach it.
Search online, search bargain stores, wait for sales at the larger stores etc. - don't put all your eggs into one basket and rely on the only wedding store in your local area as being the answer to it all.
And see if there are any seamstresses in your area if you want a handmade creation; even if you think you can sew it alone, nerves can get the better of you and the knowledge that there is back-up in the event of errors or time running out is crucial.
Keep exercising regularly.
It is really important to have a regular exercise regime.
This is your body's opportunity to let out the stress and to give your head breathing space.
Regular exercise will keep you shapely, fit, and mentally alert.
Avoid gimmicks.
An uncluttered wedding is the best sort of wedding.
It ensures top mental health as there are less gimmicky things to worry about rounding up and paying for, and there are less things to arrange on the day.
Sure it might be sweet to add bubble blowers, cameras and individually wrapped candy cases for each guest but just how necessary are all these gimmicks?
Guest photos taken on disposables are often poor quality and require a large processing outlay for a few decent shots; bubbles, confetti etc. leave a mess and create garbage and other items left for guests are just more "junk" for them to cart around.
Save your pocket and your sanity by cutting out all this minor little extras.
Accept offers of help.
This is not the time for heroics or for acting as if anyone else is "taking over your occasion".
Accept help with graciousness as it will save you time, money and effort.
Appreciate the fact that others want to involve themselves in your special event.
And revel in the spare time this frees up for you to dash out and have your facial or pedicure.
Pamper yourself!