offended.Focus on the people, not the food.
Remember that holiday parties and social functions are meant to be times to get together with friends and family.
Get in the spirit of the holiday season by celebrating your personal relationships, and recognize that you're not just there for the food.
Make the occasional party the exception to your diet, not the rule.
Splurging once in a while is not generally a major problem, as long as you get back to your diet the next day.
Don't let one or two holiday events be the excuse for falling off the wagon till New Year's.
Consider volunteering to host the party yourself.
There's no better way to ensure that there will be diet-friendly, healthy choices on the menu than by throwing the party yourself.
If someone else is hosting the party, offer to bring food to the party so that you can be sure that there are food options that fit into your diet program.
At least there will be one dish on the buffet that you can enjoy without worrying about the calorie count.
Prepare so you don't arrive at a holiday party on an empty stomach.
Have a light, healthy snack shortly before leaving for the party.
Choose protein-rich foods, such as low-fat yogurt or cottage cheese , as the protein will stick with you and help you feel full longer.
Alternatively, eat a small green salad as the fiber will also fill you up.
If you cannot eat something before arriving at the party, ask the host or hostess for a large glass of water as soon as you arrive.
By taking the edge off your hunger, you can approach the buffet table with control and be less likely to make impulsive choices at the party.
Choose wisely from the foods available at holiday functions.
If you look carefully, you'll find there are often acceptable healthy choices available to you.
Concentrate on the cocktail shrimp, smoked salmon, and fresh fruit or vegetable platters.
Go easy on the accompanying sauces and dips.
Raw mixed nuts, particularly almonds, are good sources of protein, but be wary of candied nuts or extremely salty nut mixes.
Eat slowly.
It takes our body about 20 minutes to realize that we are full.
Also, the more slowly you eat, the less food you'll eat as opposed to eating fast in the same amount of time.
Drink responsibly.
Consider sparkling mineral water or non-alcoholic drinks, such as a "virgin Mary."
If you decide to drink alcohol, choose white or red wine, rather than champagne or hard liquor.
Intersperse all alcoholic drinks with water, and you can even use sparkling water added to water down alcohol.
Steer clear of the soda, too.
They're very high in sugar.
Stay active during the holidays . Mingle, dance and do what you can to stay active (and as far away from the buffet table as possible).
Keep your metabolism up by staying active and including lots of healthy exercise during the holiday season.
Be careful of leftovers.
Don't eat a lot of calorie-laden food for days after a special event just because the food needs to be eaten up.
Portion all treat food leftovers in small amounts and ensure that everyone is sharing it, so that you're not tempted to finish off the remaining half of a cheesecake or crackling by yourself.