you.Diagnose thyself digital packrat.
One or more of these symptoms will likely mean you're a digital packrat:
Do you have 20 or more folders and sub-folders in your documents folder on your hard drive?
Is your list of Internet bookmarks long and overwhelming?
Do you use them much or scroll through lots of unused ones to get to the few you do use?
Is your email program nearly full, or do you use more than one email account because of all the storage you need?
Do you have multiple duplicates of photos, and is it hard to find a photo you need?
Is your hard drivepercent full or more?
Do you have multiple accounts for similar things, making it hard to find stuff?
Are any of your digital file systems overwhelming?
Do you have email fromyears ago?
Do you have project files fromyears ago?
Do you have folders of stuff waiting to be read that would take a year to actually read if you ever did get around to reading them?
Go through a massive purge.
In the beginning, you ll need to devote some time to purging files.
Thirty minutes a day is a good time put it in your calendar , and just spend 30 minutes purging everything you can.
See the "Tips" below for more details.
When you re done with your massive purge, it feels amazing!
It s worth the time you spend doing it.
Target one folder at a time.
If you can set aside some time each day for purging, then each day you should target a large folder.
Start with the biggest ones and then work your way down.
"Folders" mean anything that contains digital files or information, email accounts, Flickr accounts, hard drives, USB flash drives, Internet bookmarks, My Documents sub-folders, etc.
Choose only the important stuff, and trash the rest.
Go through all the stuff in the folder you re targeting (see above) and pick out only the most important stuff, only the super essential files.
Put them in a separate, temporary folder.
Once you ve picked out the essential stuff, delete the rest.
Put the essential stuff back where it belongs and delete the temporary folder.
What this leaves you with is a lot less stuff in each folder just the stuff you need.
Sometimes, you can delete an entire folder if you can, then do so.
Simplify before organizing.
Many people try to create complicated organizing systems for all of their stuff, in an attempt to get organized.
But it s much better to reduce your stuff, and to get it as simple as possible, before organizing it all.
If you simplify enough, you might not even need to organize at all!
Consider compressing files you do intend to keep, so they take up much less space.
Get organized and have one place for everything.
Once you ve simplified, organize so that everything you need is kept together, either in one place or as few places as possible.
For example, you could organize all the information in your life in a personal wiki, creating different pages in the wiki for different types of info.
Having one place for everything reduces the need to look for stuff.
Reduce accounts.
Same concept, but in this step you should list out your different accounts for holding files and digital information, and try to analyze which ones are necessary and which ones can be eliminated.
The fewer, the better.
And if you find an account that holds all your things in one place, prefer it over a dispersed range of accounts.
Simplify your feeds.
If you ve got 100 RSS feeds or more, chances are you re being a packrat with them.
Drop as many as possible, so the incoming information is reduced to a manageable amount.
Set yourself a challenge to reduce your feeds down to 10.
Clear out your in-box . Having an overloaded in-box is overwhelming.
Reduce your in-boxes and clear them out.
This includes all those unsent drafts you've "slept on"; you're never going to say it now.
Clear out old emails.
After you clear out your in-box, it's useful to clear out old messages.
In Gmail , for example, you could create a filter that searched for all your email messages older than 6 months.
Scan through this new folder, and delete all of the messages if possible.
You could then do a second filter to find all types of media files (.jpg,.gif,.pdf,.mov,.mp3,.mpg, etc.) and then delete as many of these as possible.
Clear your desktop.
Don't have any icons on your computer's desktop.
Delete or sort through all of those, and have a clear desktop.
Simple and calming.
Instead, use a simple filing system where you have a folder for downloads, another for things you're currently working on, another for read/review, and another for archives.
For shortcuts to applications, use a program like AutoHotKey to make keyboard shortcuts to all the applications you use much faster than shortcuts on the desktop.
Delete multiple or poor photos.
It's useful for both amateur photographers and pros to cull through their photos, not only to simplify but to force you to analyze your photos and just choose the best.
Get rid of all the mistakes, blurred images, and ones that you don't think much of now and never will.
Otherwise, you're not looking at any of them!
Stop saving junk.
Once you ve cleared out your old files and emails and accounts and your desktop, the key is to keep them clear.
Every time you re about to save something, ask yourself if it is really valuable information, or if it's basically junk.
Toss the junk.
Defrag your hard drive . Once you ve gone through all your old files on your hard drive, it's good to run a defrag utility so that your drive is organized efficiently and runs faster.
Aim for a simple digital life.
Once you're purged of all the clutter and junk, see if you can keep things simple.
When you're tempted to file something, see if you can deal with it and delete it immediately instead.
When it comes time to create another account for more storage, see if you can reduce your storage needs instead.
At all turns, aim to simplify instead of complicate.
This is more of a change in mindset than anything else.
Put purging reminders in your calendar.
To make purging a routine, set reminders in your calendar program.
Every week or two, or every month, are good intervals, depending on your needs.
But make it a regular thing, and you ll be living the simple digital life from now on.