about!Know the schedule.
Be sure that you know when practice starts, when it ends, and if you'll have breaks (and for how long).
If the practice isn't at your school (perhaps it's an honor band that will only practice a few times and must meet in a central location), make sure to know where it'll be, how far in advance you need to leave, and when you'll need to be picked up.
This will help you plan meals, snacks, and give you an idea of how long you'll have to play at one time.
Be prepared.
A good checklist of items to be sure to have would include:
Comfortable clothing.
Don't wear your itchiest sweater, most uncomfortable pants, or shoes that you absolutely can't stand.
This goes double if you'll be marching... constantly itching or hurting all through the rehearsal will wreck your concentration and the experience.
Your music/a folder to put new music in.
Even if you don't have sheet music for this group yet, you'll want something to put it in to get it home safely.
A pencil.
You never know when you'll need to mark your music, and carrying a pencil isn't a bad habit to get into.
A spit rag/small towel.
Even if you play a small wind instrument such as the clarinet, it may start dripping spit after a few hours of playing.
The last thing you want is to end up sitting in it.
Extras of everything you may need.
This would include reeds, valve oil, cork grease, and other things of that nature.
Be sure to have them within easy reach, but not cluttering up the area.
A water bottle.
You'll want to make sure this is allowed first, as different band rooms have different rules regarding food and drinks, but if you can bring on, you definitely should.
You're going to get incredibly thirsty.
If you know you'll get a snack break, bring a snack too, and try to find something that doesn't have unearthly amounts of salts and sugars, since you'll have to play your instrument afterwards.
Be organized . If you already have your music, make sure it's in order, together, and all there.
If you plan to be getting music, leave some space in your folder, and make sure to get it in there as you get it, to avoid losing anything.
Sit with good posture . While you may think the effort needed to sit up straight and hold your arms right will wear you out earlier, it actually won't.
You should be in this habit anyway, but a good body position will ultimately make you more comfortable and your hands and back won't get tired as quickly.
Pay attention . The worst part of band rehearsals, especially with difficult music, can be repeating a few measures over and over and over again.
Do your best to look alert, listen to the director when he/she talks to you or your section, and try to do what they ask the first time.
Take advantage of breaks.
If you get a whole break in the rehearsal, make sure you take care of important things like getting to the bathroom (especially if the whole band needs to go... you want to hurry up and make a break for it!), getting some water, or eating your snack before you start talking to your friends or doing other things.
You'll regret it if the break is over and you were so busy goofing off that you didn't get these things done.
If you have a few minutes while the director is talking to another section, take the time to lean back in your chair, mark your music, change your reed, empty your spit valve, or anything else you may have to do.
Keep an ear on what's going on, though... you don't want to miss your turn to play!
Be friendly . If you're in a band with people you don't know, or you got stuck sitting next to someone you don't particularly like, be as nice to them as possible (or at least be civil).
Drama doesn't make long practices any better, and will often distract you or stress you out.
Do your best to have fun.
If you're completely, utterly miserable from the second you walk in the door to the second you leave, maybe band isn't for you, period.
People who are really devoted to their instrument and the band can enjoy even the most grueling of rehearsals.
Sure, they may not be grinning like maniacs the whole time, but they probably aren't thinking "Darn, I wish I'd never even auditioned for this stupid band."
Enjoy your free time.
Along with lunch, or just as an opportunity for fresh air, you may be allowed some time outside or elsewhere in the building to run around and talk to your friends.
Let this be a chance to refresh your mood, too, and when you get back to the band room, you'll be awake, alert, and ready to play some more.