required.After you've been accepted, do a victory dance, you know you want to.
If it wasn't you're choice to go to the school, don't be devastated yet, you may learn to like your school.
If you have a uniform, buy it ! If you don't have uniform, read the dress code, and ask students what they know they can get away with.
For those who have uniform - Make sure everything fits, you will look very odd if something doesn't fit.
Uniform shirts are usually a bit big so be careful what size you order.
Don't be afraid to accessorize your uniform.
Wear a watch, a headband, a hair ribbon, whatever.
Cute clips and colorful shoelaces are adorable.
For those without uniform - You're lucky!
You can wear your normal-styled clothes(:
Shoes tend to be a very lenient style wise.
Ballet flats or cute sneakers are great.
Wear natural makeup.
If you want to do something more wild, make sure that you can pull it off, and that its allowed.
Pertaining to hygiene, shower everyday, but if you're a girl, try washing hair every other day.
You won't have time do deal with your hair everyday, and it's unhealthy to wash it every day.
Join a fall sports team, it's a great way to meet people before school starts, and if you're really nervous, ask your school for a buddy if they don't give you one.
A buddy is your personal welcoming committee, he or she will show you around school, help you find your locker, classes, sit with you at lunch, and just help in general.
When you're at the school, introduce yourself to your teachers and make a good impression, they'll remember your name during class.
Some schools the student-teacher relationship is weird, the teachers are a little more casual, they're more friendly, you'll enjoy talking to them about everyday things, having real conversations, but purely in school, never out of school unless if its school sponsored.
Set up and organize your locker, memorize your combo.
Locker ladders are great, you can get it at www.lockerladder.com.
They're really durable, you can keep them for years.
Find what's best for you to organize your stuff.
Make sure you know where your classes are.
It's really embarrassing to show up in the wrong class.
Attend orientation, it's really helpful, and you'll meet other new students.
Or you can just go to orientation and reunite with old friends and meet the new students.
Politely introduce yourself to the secretary or someone who looks like they can help so they can help you in the future.
The first day of school : pay attention, the teachers will introduce themselves and tell you what to get for their class if it's not in a supply list.
Try to get a seat in the middle of the row for optimum viewing of the board.
Sign up for clubs.
This usually happens about two weeks after school starts.
Sign up for at least one club if you're not on a sports team.
Try to sign up for one even if you are one, whether if its for the fall season or the whole year.
Remember technology.
Cell phones are also great, especially if you need to call a parent or a friend.
They're also great for texting during long and boring assemblies.
Some schools require you to get a laptop.
They are often picky about which one you get.
Consider getting the extended warranty because you will be getting a lot of use out of your computer and it can end up saving you hundreds of dollars.
Most private schools are full of school spirit, and competition.
Don't be afraid to be supportive of your school.
Besides, clothing with your school name on it is usually some of the comfiest stuff you may ever own.
Go to a game or two, a really big game is usually where you can find a friend, plus the energy of the crowd is breathtaking.
Stay on top of your work.
It's easy to fall behind if you don't study.
Get your academic life in order before making a really big social life.
If you fail a certain amount of classes, you will be put first on academic probation, and then get kicked out if you don't improve.
Yes, people can buy their way back into the school, but that's not a good option now, is it?