GMATTry to always be on time.
Teachers adore students who are on time.
Making an effort to be on time shows you are enthusiastic and teachers notice this behavior.
On the first day get there early, but not too early.
If you get there too early you will be sitting alone for a few minutes, and that is always a bit uncomfortable for both you, and the teacher.
If you get there too late there may not be any desirable seats and you will be assigned by the teacher to sit in one of the remaining seats, usually not chosen by others for a particular reason.
If you get to choose seats, don't be afraid to sit up front because studies show that generally children in the front can focus better.
This is not church.
The best place to sit is in the second row next to the side if you can.
You can pay attention to the teacher and still be sociable with friends.
Sitting by the side will also help you see the teacher in both angles and you can grasp information better.
Do your homework . Keep a set amount of time to do your homework.
If you do not do your homework, you are likely to go to summer school , or just fail the class.
Usually, homework consistency is a big part of your grade for the class.
Identify the work you have to do (big reports and papers) and the work that'll require less time and effort.
Don't procrastinate ; it will get you nowhere.
Use dead time like bus rides or while you're eating breakfast to catch up on assigned reading.
If you are in a science or social class, you might have book, magazine, and Internet references to supplement your learning as well.
If you ever happen to be sick, call, text, e-mail, or Myspace/Facebook a friend to see if they can give you the homework assignment.
It's even better if they can bring you homework.
In high school, being sick is not an excuse for not doing homework unless you are extremely sick.
Study . In most high school classes, tests make up a large part of your grade.
Some schools have a major final or project, so keep your assignments handy so you can refer to the other assignments for the big comprehensive test.
This is common during senior year.
Study a week before a test, or at the very least two days before a test, instead of at midnight on the night before the test unless you can study well at that time.
It is also best to do well in the class anyway.
The more you understand the material, the more natural it becomes and you don't have to cram as much.
It helps if you study (even if you don't have a test coming up) for ten minutes a day on the material you covered in class.
Get yourself a good nights sleep!
If not, you'll be distracted and have trouble remembering important information.
Plan , but don't obsess.
High school, no matter what parents and teachers are telling you, comes with a greater margin of error than does college or the working world.
Acknowledge that, but don't abuse it.
Colleges may admit you because you have a perfect 4.0, play an instrument , sing , sport , or if you are into theatre.
Most colleges, especially community colleges are pretty loose.
Get a Job . You'll probably have to work to raise money for things you may need in school, like textbooks, calculators, cars, and laptops.
Look for a job that'll look good on a resume even if it's less than substantive.
Most people know "intern" is code for all the work that no one else wants to do, but pay your dues anyway.
This time might be tough for teens to get jobs because there are adults that want the job as much as the teens, and the bosses might hire the adults first.
Try to have your grades at least a 3.0 or higher , be involved with some community service or other job experience, and try not to have a criminal or school discipline record and you'll be fine.
Learn your way around the school.
If your school is very big, there's an especially high chance you will get lost now and then, so try getting a map of your school and highlighting your main classes and the fastest routes to get to them.
Figure out which bathrooms/lunch tables/desks are the best and strive to get to them before anyone else.
During student orientation, feel free to walk around the building as much as you need until you have a good feeling of where your classes are.
Also, ask older kids who have been in high school for a few years some of the best ways to get to class.
Make friends with diverse groups of people.
Everybody has something to contribute to you.
Don't sacrifice your grades, but have fun , both in school and out of it.
For example find a group of friends that you can hang out with both in and out of school.
High school is a time for you to also enjoy with friends!
Sitting in a crowded cafeteria all alone can be the hardest part of being social.
It's hard, if not impossible to get through high school happily and successfully without at least a few friends.
Find people who you get along with - people who appreciate you for who you are, and who improve your overall life performance.
These people will make you feel better about life, and help get you through school.
Join or start a club with the help of a teacher/sponsor.
You'll meet new people , and won't feel left out.
It's important not to be pressured into several clubs ; however, just join or start one if you have a particular interest.
Try to make friends with people that you can naturally bond with.
If you can naturally pull off a prep, do it.
Nobody likes a fake.
Look your best . Shower every night/day and apply deodorant.
Wear clean clothes and make an impression.
Find your own style of clothes, something comfortable and efficient.
You don't have to wear what all the popular kids are wearing - be original!
However, don't get too crazy with clothes, you're at school to learn, not to model.
Don't wear clothes that will get you kicked out of school, for it's just a waste of time.
Clothes that are found in general department stores like JcPenney are a great start.
Keep necessities in your locker.
Bring a spare set of clothes to school if anything were to majorly spill on you.
Keep any other things you may need in your locker, such as gym clothes, gum, sneakers, pad/tampons, sports schedules, etc. Remember to lock up valuable stuff like iPods and cell phones because people will steal if they see your things lying around.
Make sure to keep your locker organized , as it can get cluttered quite easily.
Create an ' emergency kit ' with anything that you might need, like tampons, house key, spare glasses, etc.
Get help if you are being bullied.
If someone starts to give you a hard time, stand up to them as soon as possible.
Don't just run away or put up with them but lay down your boundaries and set limits.
If you don't, then it will be a long four years because it only gets worse.
Bullies love to get you going off track.
Smile . Something small like this may not seem like much, but it can bring changes in other peoples' attitudes right and left.
It will also make you appear to be a friendly, happy, fun and warm person.
You'll have some new friends soon enough if you keep a good attitude.
Stay positive.
Having a good attitude will help you keep your spirits up when things seem to be falling apart around you.
Stay calm and relaxed if you get into some kind of trouble in school.
Do these three things: Learn from mistakes; sincerely apologize when you need to, and stay true to yourself.
You can lose yourself and mess up in all of the craziness.
Stay focused . To succeed in high school , you have to have the right mind frame.
Think of it like this: work hard now and reap the benefits later.
Don't let friends lead you off the path that leads to success.
Instill self-discipline.
Try to be always present in school.
Use what absences you take for very important reasons (truly sick, doctor's appointments, etc.).
Always be on time for every class.
While your teacher is teaching, keep quiet , unless he or she is asking for answers.
If your friends want to talk to you in class, ask them to wait until later.
Rudeness generally makes you appear unintelligent.
Get organized . Take notes if you think your teacher is teaching something meaningful for your exams.
Also, have a plan for what you are going to study.
Include all vacations, breaks and movie outings and what not into your study plan.
It is best if you could touch on every subject every day.
Keep your locker / binders nice and tidy, also.
You don't want to be late to class because you couldn't find your textbook!
Know your locker combination and practice opening it after school.
Buy a good calendar and a daily planner and fill in important events like school dances , pep rallies, tests, and exams.
Stay on your teachers' good sides.
You don't have to be the teacher's pet, but neither do you need to spend a year avoiding a teacher who doesn't seem interested in helping you or who is rude to you.
Try to make friends of teachers.
After all, you never know when you may later need one of them to give you a letter of recommendation ! Don't be afraid to ask them for help - asking for help is a sign of strength and maturity.
Keep your grades up.
High School is a time to study, fun can be had at the side.
Studies come first.
Make sure you study until you understand everything-ask for help from parents, friends or teachers if needed.