shower. :)Pre-planning.
If you are the Mom-to-be (mtb), or the designated party-planner, make sure Dad-to-be (dtb) can and will attend.
If dtb's not interested (and excited), it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to entice the other guys to show up.
If, for some reason, there is no, "dad" available to help out with planning and advice, mtb should designate a special male friend or family member.
Preferably, choose someone who will be excited about the party, will actively participate in planning, and who you know will really encourage male guests to show up and have a great time.
Talk to dtb about what he would want/like for the shower.
What are his tastes?
Also, what he would definitely NOT like.
If he won't like it, the other men probably won't either.
If it's a surprise shower, definitely get dtb involved in the planning as much as possible.
Invitation wording : Address the envelopes to both the male and female guests to make it clear who is invited.
Also, include wording in the invitation to clarify the party is co-ed, and that dtb will be attending.
Make sure dtb knows all the important information off the top of his head (he will be asked) : Date, time and specific location of shower; where the gift registry(s) is/are; etc.
Plan your decorating scheme with the guys in mind.
Don't go too crazy with lacy, loopy, flowery decorations, invitations, and gift bags; even if baby's a girl!
Keep things simpler than you normally would.
Include man-friendly foods in your menu.
Keep Mom-to-be's restricted diet in mind, but don't expect the guys to be happy with fresh fruit and punch.
Again, dtb's opinion is a big help here!
Avoid, "Baby Shower Games."
Nothing makes some guys catch 'baby shower flu' faster than the threat he'll be caught up in potentially embarrasing games.
Instead, have a diaper raffle (every guest brings a bag of diaper bags and gets a raffle ticket), and make sure the prizes are guy-friendly; or other male-appropriate activities.
You may have to clarify with the men ahead of time that there won't be games, to help raise their comfort-level.
Dtb can be very helpful with this.