helpsPurchase a document organiser.
The size will be determined by the documentation that you intend to keep.
If you only wish to store receipts, you may choose a smaller document organizer rather than if you are going to store larger pieces of paper and documents then you should probably choose a large document organiser.
Decide what categories you want to include in your document organiser.
Once you have decided on your categories, then you will need to label the tabs on the separate compartments.
It is usually best to alphabetise the separate compartments because later on when you are looking for a particular document, you will know what category it is under due to the nature of the document and will be able to either retrieve the document or file a new document because your separate compartments are already alphabetised, thus making it easier to locate.
Suggested categories for your document organiser could be any of those listed below :
Agreements
Bank account(s), Loan record(s) and Safe Deposit Instructions
Birth, baptismal and death records
Credit card company documents
Divorce, marriage, and separation documents
Financial: Bonds, home ownership paperwork, investments, tax documentation, land Deeds, mortgage paperwork, out of State home ownership paperwork, stocks, treasury bills, etc.
Important correspondences and documents
Insurance Records: Life, disability, medical, property and vehicle
Legal: Cemetery and funeral arrangements, health care proxy documents, last will and testament (include attorney name with will instructions), and living wills
Miscellaneous
Retirement and superannuation documents
Tax records (years in many jurisdictions)
Travel: Passport and Visa documents
Vehicle ownership: Auto insurance documents, DMV documents (title, and/or transfer paperwork), and gasoline (petrol)/mileage (kilometerage) documents.
Keeping your organisers organised.
Once you receive a new document try to file as soon as possible.
Also if a document is needed that is currently in the document organiser, retrieve document, take necessary steps of why document was retrieved and after steps are completed, put retrieved document back in the document organizer under correct category originally retrieved from.
This takes only minutes and your organiser stays organised.