minutes.Get enough sleep.
It s hard to drag yourself out of bed after one night of inadequate sleep, and chronic sleep deprivation (a sleep deficit) makes the task even harder.
Determine how much sleep you need and make sure to get about that amount each night.
At a bare minimum, when waking up on time is crucial, you should try very hard to go to sleep for at least eight hours, even if you have otherwise restful sleep patterns.
Your body can't "store" sleep.
Get into a rhythm.
Your body s clock follows a circadian rhythm.
If your rhythm is set properly, you may be able to regularly wake up refreshed without an alarm, but if it s not you ll wake up groggy or even sleep through your alarm altogether.
Make an effort to get to bed and to get up at about the same times every day.
If you work changing shifts or otherwise have to adjust your schedule, your rhythm will be thrown off for a while, but you can reset it over a few days.
Adjust for your sleep cycles.
The typical human sleep cycle is 90 minutes.
Adjust the time you wake up or the time you go to bed so that you sleep for some multiple of 90 minutes (6, 7.5 or 9 hours, for example), and you ll wake up more refreshed.
Sleep well.
Eight hours of sleep won t help you much if you don t get quality sleep.
Minimize disturbances that may wake you up in the night:
Get a comfortable bed
Set your thermostat so you ll sleep at a comfortable temperature
Reduce external noises by closing windows, turning off the TV, or using a device that generates constant white noise.
Guard against mosquitoes if you are in a place where mosquitos are a problem and take preventive measures so you are fully guarded against them when asleep.
Consider getting a larger bed or sleeping in separated beds if your spouse or partner wakes you up with his or her tossing and turning.
Better yet, get a mattress that absorbs motion and will not be felt by your partner.
Abstain from caffeine and alcohol six hours before you go to sleep, because caffeine can stay in your system that long., especially at night.
Darken the room.
Bright lights will keep you awake.
Read the related wikiHows for more tips on getting to sleep and getting quality sleep.
Get the right alarm clock.
Some people need a very loud, harsh alarm, some can t wake up to the radio, and some find that gradual waking works best.
There are even many varieties of alarms to stick near you that will vibrate to awaken you, including a vibrating pillow, wrist band, and devices that clip on to your pillow or go between your mattresses.
Experiment to find the alarm clock that s best for you and your neighbor(assuming you want to be respectful of course!)
Position your alarm clock so that you have to get out of bed to turn it off.
It s quite common to reach over to the nightstand, turn off the alarm, and go back to sleep without even remembering doing so.
If you have to get out of bed and walk across the room, however, you re more likely to stay awake.
Set multiple alarm clocks.
If you know that one alarm will not wake you up permanently, set more than one to go off.
You can set them both for the same time if you have trouble hearing just one, or you can set the second to go off 5-10 minutes after the first.
You may find it helps if they make different sounds.
Get someone to help you.
If your spouse or partner, or just a roommate doesn t have trouble waking up on time, ask him or her to help you wake up and to make sure you stay awake.
A reliable roommate might also be willing to help if you give him or her a few bucks or cook breakfast.
You could also ask a friend to call you in the morning and talk to you for a minute or so until you become fully awake.
If you can t find a reliable friend who s willing to help, get a wakeup call.
Long a staple in hotels, wakeup calls to your home or cell phone are now available by subscription or for one-time calls.
Get out of bed if you wake up a few minutes before your alarm rings.
Because of nightly hormonal changes to natural sleep cycles, many people find that they wake up a few minutes before their alarm goes off.
If this occurs, consider it a sign that you re ready to get up.
If you go back to sleep to wait for the alarm, you ll likely feel more drowsy.
Brighten up your bedroom.
The body naturally wakes up faster when it s light outside, so keep your curtains open to use the sun to help you awake.
If you need to wake up when it s dark, or if you live in a dreary, cloudy place, consider using a timer on your bedroom lamp or getting a light box or a bedside dawn simulator.
Get pumped.
When you wake up, get out of bed immediately and get moving.
Do some calisthenics or quickly go about your morning routine.
Take a shower as soon as you get out of bed, alternating the temperatures between hot and cold to get your circulation going.
Use shower gels with ingredients such as lemon or peppermint essential oils to help make you more alert.
If a shower is not possible, try putting a couple of drops of essential oils onto a tissue and inhaling their fragrance.
Some alarm clocks now have aromatherapy components built in, as well.
Have a drink.
Drinking some water as soon as you wake up stimulates the body and will help you stay awake.
If you need something stronger, try coffee or tea.
If you have trouble making it out of your bedroom without coffee, consider putting your coffeemaker in your room and setting the timer so that a cup of Joe will be waiting for you when you wake up.