informationA soft, fabric baby sling.
Purchase or make a soft, flexible stretchy baby carrier rather than the ones with bulky padding and a frame.
Those types of carriers often cause the carrying parent back discomfort after only 30 minutes and often they spread the babies little legs too far apart; slings and soft fabric carriers are designed to accommodate a baby s growth.
[ citation needed ]
Both shoulders.
Be sure the carrier provides you the comfort and support you need.
For example, if you have issues with back pain try to purchase a carrier that offers support over both shoulders rather than just one.
Place a folded receiving blanket under the baby s head and torso for newborns and preemies.
After a few weeks you won t need this extra padding.
About like this.
Position your child in the cradle position inside the sling.
This will offer discreet nursing while your child lays comfortable within the sling.
Tummy to tummy.
Hold baby heart to heart.
Adjust the snugness and positioning of the sling according to the manufacturer's instructions, so that baby is securely nestled against your chest.
Facing forwards, seeing the world.
Support baby facing forward with one arm under his legs and his back against your chest.
This is called the Kangaroo Carry, and is ideal for children 4 months and older who have good head control.
Refer to your slings manufacturer s instructions on how to secure sling.
Advanced Mental Development - Baby wearing has been shown to enhance mental development.
Sling babies spend a greater amount of time in the "quiet alert" behavioral state, the optimal state for learning.
Sling babies are intimately involved in their parent's world, more exposed to and engaged in what is going on around them.
Environmental experiences stimulate nerves to branch out and connect with other nerves.
It is through this process that the brain grows and develops.
Studies have reported that sling babies show advanced speech development and enhanced visual and auditory alertness.
[ citation needed ]
Reduced Incidence of Postpartum depression - Postpartum Depression is much less common in mothers who wear their babies.
This may be due to several factors, including the mother's hormonal stimulation and her baby's reduced crying.
[ citation needed ]
Dramatically reduced crying - Scientific research has reported that babies who were carried for at leasthours a day cried 43% less during the day and 51% less at night (both while in and out of the carrier).
[ citation needed ]
Easier discipline - The deeper the connection between parent and child, the easier discipline will be.
Wearing your baby in the sling will enhance this connection.
Credible research comparing well-connected children with poorly connected children has shown that connected children are more secure, settled, trusting, sociable, considerate, co-operative, willing to share, empathetic, sensitive, positive, adaptable, confident, affectionate, persistent and eager to learn.
[ citation needed ]
Help babies grow and thrive - Because of the calming effect motion has on infants, babies cry significantly less.
Because they spend less time crying, this energy can therefore be diverted into growing.
It has also been speculated that baby wearing promotes growth hormones and enzymes that stimulate growth.
[ citation needed ]
Better bonding - Keeps you in direct contact with your baby for constant bonding, your baby can hear your heartbeat and can find comfort in the warmth of your body.
[ citation needed ]
Encourage sibling harmony - Older siblings may be more accepting and less jealous of a new baby when he or she is carried in the sling.
Baby wearing allows the mother to have her hands free so she can mother both children well.
[ citation needed ]