mind!Find out who the professor is for your creative writing class, and find out what creative works he or she has had published recently.
Check them out and read them.
If you can, find out your professor's favorite authors, especially those that have influenced your professor's writing.
Pay particular attention to your professor's preferred style.
Is the tone serious and subdued?
Rough and harsh?
Dramatic and elegant?
See if you can emulate the style in a few sentences of your own.
As you read through the chapters, notice how the plot develops.
Does a lot of action take place in a short time, or is much of the writing given over to detailed description?
Most writers emphasize either action, description or dialogue.
You'll want to know which you should favor in your writing for this class.
Find as many people as you can who have taken a class from this professor.
They can be your most helpful resource.
Ask them what the professor is looking for and they'll give you a good blunt answer.
Two students of a screenwriting professor at a state university helped several other students succeed in his class with one simple tip: The professor liked scripts with a good dose of profanity in them; although he didn't realize it, this was what he meant when he said he wanted the dialogue to be "natural."
A simple sprinkling of rudeness and rough language moved one student up from a C to an A.
Listen closely in the first few class periods.
Your professor will mention some of his or her pet peeves about writing style.
The most common pet peeves are writing in the passive voice and using adverbs.
(Although all good writers use these sometimes, you are a mere undergraduate and haven't earned your license to do so.)
Learn what these are and avoid them at all times.
A good resource is a tiny, easy-to-read guide called The Elements of Style (see below).
Think of a theme before you create your story.
Again, choose something similar to what your professor favors.
If he or she writes about oppressed characters mired in futile struggles, don't make your story about a golden hero who clears every hurdle with brilliant ease.
It will annoy your instructor and your writing will be judged as "unrealistic."
Conversely, if your instructor loves stories about spiritual hope, don't let your dark, brooding side come out too much in your writing.
Choose an interesting setting.
A foreign country is always good.
Create interesting characters.
It's okay to dramatize their personalities a little.
No one wants to read a story full of characters that are no more interesting than their own friends and family.
Create a story with a beginning, middle and end.
In the beginning, you might make one of your characters want something that's out of reach.
In the middle, you'll create a conflict that prevents the character from getting what he wants, and in the end, you will resolve the conflict (either with success or failure).
Accept constructive criticism.
Most creative writing classes involve some kind of peer critique process.
Most of your classmates will either deliver vague criticism of everything you write no matter how good it is, or vague praise of everything you write no matter how bad it is. This is because most aspiring young creative writers don't like to read amateur fiction nearly as much as they like to write it.
They may not have taken more than a minute or two to read your story.
Don't take it personally, and be the better person who gives specific helpful comments.
Revise your story into a final draft.
Make sure it's free of spelling, grammar and usage errors.
Here is where the peer critiques can be useful, provided that your classmates have reference materials and will double-check whether their corrections were correct.
Turn your story in on time.