."Understand faith.
Faith is the origin of all good Christian acts, but also realize that faith doesn't only produce good acts.
Faith is believing in something unseen, that there is evidence of
Faith produces action; but action isn't always faith
Be in direct contact with the highest authority who surprisingly said, "Whatever you do to the least of my children you do to me."--good, mediocre or bad.
So if you cheat versus help someone you do it to He Himself says the Master of Super Heroes of all time.
So be sure yours is a purpose (vision or mission) such that it is possible to help people to understand life's challenges in a special way, and then live that vision; do the good plan; walk in the path.
Know about conflict : "For ours is not a conflict with mere flesh and blood, but with the despots, the empires, the forces that control and govern this dark world--the spiritual hosts of evil arrayed against us in the heavenly warfare."(Ephesians 6:12) [2]
Seek and find the light of the Good News and you can help friends to see the light and to escape condemnation and to escape "imprisonment" in darkness like dungeons of the second death.
[3]
Show a wanderer/stranger the way off of the shadowy, crowded expanse, as that stranger is on the broad open way to destruction.
You can help people to find the light and to be saved from that "second death" through the plan of God, by grace through faith in Jesus.
Tell people how to avoid the quicksand like the "Slough of Despond" in their progress through the darkness of night.
The Slough of Despond is a deep bog in John Bunyan's allegory The Pilgrim's Progress , into which the character "Christian" sinks under the burdens and weight of his sins and his sense of a guilty conscience, like into a bog of sludge , but is saved by God's plan.
Realize that you have opportunities to clearly warn and save the wanderers so that you may "all fly away," so be the heroic witness . You may know that "If I had the wings of an angel, over these prison walls I would fly" were the words of an old spiritual which inspired the author of I'll Fly Away to speak of flying "like a bird [man or woman] from prison bars has flown." in the song "I'll Fly Away."
That song saying that I will fly away has been called the most recorded gospel music song of all time.
[4]
Think of the supernatural quality of existence in and through the Master of the Way the one who in a supernatural way bears all your weaknesses and trespasses : "For there are three that bear record [testify] in Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit: and these three are one."(1 John 5:7) [2] Realize that Jesus is called the Word, Way, Truth and Life in the Gospel.
Hone your talents to as sharp an edge as possible, and put your talent to work for God--to their best uses.
You talents and abilities are shown by what activities you do and how you do those activities in which you participate like volunteering as a singer in a singing group or choir, or in a group or team at school, work or church.
Don't wait to be asked or begged to join as that is the wrong approach for a "super hero" as a Christian...
Dig up your buried ambitions, abilities and talents, but be humble and confident.
Bragging often seems like lack of confidence, but if you "bury" your talents (as if you are embarrassed or ashamed) then they are not serving their best uses.
Accept the freely offered approval at the super level : "For the authorities are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad.
Would you like to live without being afraid of the authorities?
Then do what is right, and you will receive their approval."(Romans 13:3) [2]
Be covered by protection : "Put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil."(Ephesians:11) [2]
Stand as victor : "Therefore put on the complete armor of God, so that you may be able to stand your ground on the day of battle, and--having fought to the end--to remain victors on the field."(Ephesians:13) [2]
Prepare to make your testimony of the facts or events.
Testify of what you know, understand and have experienced.
"But as for what was sown on good soil, this is the person who hears the word, understands it, and produces a crop that yields 100, 60, or 30 times what was planted."(Matthew 13:23).
attestation of a fact or event : testimony
one that gives evidence ; specifically: one who testifies in a cause or before a judicial tribunal
one asked to be present at a transaction so as to be able to testify to its having taken place
one who has personal knowledge of something
a: something serving as evidence or proof: sign
b: public affirmation by word or example of usually religious faith or conviction "the heroic witness..."
Don't forget to smile and have fun with your conversation, testimony and witnessing !
Start by walking boldly, not unlike sauntering across the room and say meekly , "Hello."
Tell the wanderer your name ( alias or nickname ) then ask, "What is your name?" while shaking hands or offering a high five, upon his/her responding to you that way.
(If you go to other cultures, greet the person according to the particular culture, e.g. in Spain greet by saying Como esta?
(How are you?)
with an extended hand).
Look around observing the matrix (visual parameters) of your view.
Register any worthwhile conversation piece in your eye.
Point out something unusual about it--zingy!--you've got a starting place for diving into the swirl of conversation.
Derive a compliment from an honest impression and explain why you say that.
Don't lie and say you love someone's grunge hair when you think it's a mistake, but if you like his or her skates or shoes, or a noteworthy shirt or blouse because..., say so and explain what you like about it.
Tell why you said that nice remark : A sincere compliment has to be explained to get someone to warm up to you.
But be careful not to say something so personal that you scare the person off or make him or her feel uncomfortable.
It is best not to compliment a person's looks or body.
It might even seem like criticism in a sense or as a challenge...
Ask some interesting questions ! Most people love to talk about themselves--to get them going.
"What classes are you taking this year?"
"Have you seen/heard (Insert-Something-Here)?
What did you think of it?"
Again, keep the questions light and not invasive.
Don't ask too many questions if he or she is not seeming responsive to them.
Deal with and accept any conversation-starters he or she might offer; take something he or she has said and run with it.
Agree, disagree, ask a question about it, or offer an opinion, just don't let it go by without saying anything...
Look your friend (person you are meeting) in the eye (one eye then the other, look at the face area like reading lips), it brings out trust (but don't stare).
Use the person's name a couple times during the conversation; it will help you remember the name,.
"Oh, yeah, Jodie what do you think about Jesus Christ?", and as it draws the person's attention to what you're saying, continue to seek a statement of belief in God, Jesus.