activitiesProvide a nurturing home.
As a parent, you are actually much more important than any school, any class, any instructor.
Nurture his or her gifts without pushing too hard.
And remember he or she is still a child, and needs time for playing, socializing with friends, and "just being a kid".
The gifted students have important educational needs, too.
Determine if your Child Meets Gifted Criteria.
You may need to meet with the school's guidance counselor, principal, and teacher to find out the standards of your country, state, school district, and so on.
In the U.S., your child may qualify for special education services by law.
Remember your child can be intelligent but not necessarily meet the criteria for gifted.
Determine What the School Needs to Offer.
A child can be gifted many ways.
Usually when "gifted" is used, it refers to literacy, math, art, science, and the humanities.
What do you want your school to offer that it is not at present?
A school can usually offer an accelerated literacy curriculum, for instance.
However, a student gifted in sports, social competence, or religious understanding is less able to be helped in a traditional academic setting.
Research Education Law in your area, if necessary.
The laws in your country and local area will vary in what your legal rights are, and what choice you may have open to your child.
Speak to your Child's Teacher(s) About Your Concerns.
Teachers are often very willing to accommodate your child's needs, if you open a dialogue.
Teachers can often move faster in providing stimulating, challenging curriculum than working through the administration.
Talk to Other Parents of Gifted Children to see what has worked (or not) for them.
Networking and support can truly be useful in getting what your child needs.
Go to the School Board.
Be sure you've done your research, and understand what can be changed, and what cannot.
Get the support of parents, teachers, and administrators.
A power point is highly recommended.
Research Ways of Educating Gifted Children.
Gifted children vary as much on how they learn best as any other kind of student.
Realize, however, that just because you like a certain style of education, does not necessarily mean that is how your school will educate your child.
Search for other educational options.
In the United States there are sometimes private schools, magnet schools, and charter schools.
An independent program can be useful for a gifted child to really explore a subject deeply.
You can also opt for homeschooling, if you can manage this.
High school students may be able to take college and university classes at local institutions, community college, or on-line.