life!Ask someone you already know as a friend.
Inviting someone who's never said more than "Can I borrow a pencil?" to you severely decreases your chances of getting a "yes".
Can you blame them?
Who wants to go to the prom with somebody they barely know?
You might want to be their date because they're the best-looking person in school, but you probably won't have a good time.
Choose your date wisely.
It is more fun to go to the prom when you are with a person you have known for at least a year or two than picking up somebody you barely know off the street just because you think the person is hot.
Flirt before you ask.
If the prom is several weeks away, "prime" your desired date by flirting a little bit, if you aren't already.
Make them laugh and put your best foot forward.
If you're not already dating, think about asking them out.
Show the person how well you can get along, and how much fun you have every time you get together.
Give them a positive association to think back to when you eventually do ask.
A compliment is always a good start because girls are more emotional than boys, and they dig for that stuff.
For the guys:
Make sure you have a huge smile.
Make her laugh.
Strike up good conversations.
Sweep her off her feet.
For the girls:
Make yourself attractive - there's more to it than looks!
Be confident.
Catch his attention.
Show him that you like him.
Hit and run methods.
These are best for if rejection is a high possibility.
They're daring, but if the answer is no, it won't be as awkward.
Get a plain white t-shirt.
It can be any material you choose.
Write your name on it in permanent marker.
Write the names of aboutother girls/boys (same gender as you) in washable marker, but make sure that the marker comes out in the wash. Write a note that says to wash the shirt to find out who asked him/her to prom, so that when he/she washes it only your name will be left.
(Specify that they shouldn't wash the shirt with other clothes.)
Tell them that if the answer is yes, they should wear the shirt the next day.
Wrap it up and leave it on his/her doorstep, or mail it.
When your school makes a prom Facebook group, simply invite the person of choice to prom from there.
It's as easy as clicking on "select guests to invite" and clicking on the person's name.
You may add a personal message if you want.
If the person responds as attending, you may get a date.
Talk to him or her about that.
Of course, this person may be going with another.
Attach a note to a remote control car asking them to go to the prom with you and to write their answer on the note itself (provide them with a pen, too!).
Knock on your date's door and quickly run and hide.
When your date answers the door, drive the car up to them with the note and wait until they answer and close the door before driving the car back to you.
This method will not work if there are steps leading up to the door, or if the date isn't home!
Romantic methods.
Best for asking someone you're already dating and who you can expect to say yes.
Put Hershey's kisses in the doorway of their house or bedroom along with a note that says "Now that I've kissed the ground you walk on, will you grace me with your presence at prom?"
Leave a trail of roses from their doorway to their bed, where they'll find a note surrounded by flowers and balloons.
If you play a sport, set something up with the announcer of the game.
When your name is announced, step up on the field and have the announcer say something along the lines of "[Your Name] would like to know if [Prospective Date's Name] would like to go to the Prom with him/her."
Make sure someone you trust records it; she'll want that on tape.
Comical methods.
Best for the brave and the humorous.
Higher success rate for girls asking guys than any other method.
Lie down in front of the person's house.
Have a friend trace the outline of your body with chalk.
Leave a note behind that says "I'd DIE to go to prom with you" or "My attraction to you is FATAL.
Will you come to prom with me?" With this method, make sure you get their parents' permission, or else even a "yes" from your date might get overridden by a "no" from a parent who doesn't appreciate chalk graffiti on their property.
Bake them a cake or a pie with your request written on it in icing: "Only for (your name)'s prom date."