yourself.Look at your current diet and write down everything you would eat in a day.
Focus especially on the foods you didn't make as you have no way of controlling their fat content.
In your own cooking, use a grill, BBQ or non stick cookware to cook food with minimal fat.
Cooking with water as a supplement to oil can work, but your food will taste somewhat boiled.
Grilling (etc) food reduces added fat, still gives a nice browned appearance and taste.
Steaming, smoking & braising are other good cooking methods that can be low fat, but have great flavour.
Eliminate junk food from your diet You can lose so much weight, and be healthier, if for a little bit you don't eat any junk food.
The easiest way to substitute snacks is to make your own, its more work certainly but at least you are in charge of how much fat is used.
Its often surprisingly high calorie contents in most off the shelf snacks.
Know the fat content in food you buy, it might say "health snack" or "fat reduced" but they can have more fat than you know.
Look at the specification chart on the pack to see fat content.
Start a journal if you don't have one yet, about how you avoided fattening foods that day.
Write in this journal every day.
Drink a lot of water Try to drink 8 glasses of water a day.
Water can be improved with a squirt of fruit juice (such as lemon) or making green tea.
Sugar is a hidden trap, its easy to add sugar which can add to your waistline.
Applesyrup, honey etc are good alternatives, but there is a large range of diabetic grade sweetener substitutes.
Eat healthy . Try putting less meat in your diet, and more vegetables.
Try to be vegetarian if you can, but make sure you don't break the goal of eliminating junk food.
Vegetarian food can be just as fattening as a lot of vegetable snacks are deep fried.
Remove visible fat from meat, this is usually the skin, but any other parts as well.
This can make the end cooked product drier, so it is best to marinade the meat or cook it in a liquid such as stock.
Aim to reduce 1 meat meal a week with a meat alternative such as quinoa, beans, lentils, soya, TVP etc. Some TVP products can be quite deceptive even to regular meat eaters.
Some good vegetarian recips are so full of flavour you don't even miss the meat.