).Know the most common causes of death.
In the United States, the most common cause of unnatural death are as follows [1] :
1.
Heart Disease (30%) 2.
Cancer (23%)
3.
Strokes (7%) 4.
Lung Diseases (5%)
5.
Injuries (4%) 6.
Diabetes (3%)
7.
Influenza or Pneumonia (3%) 8.
Alzheimer s Disease (2%)
9.
Inflammation of the Kidney (2%) 10.
Blood Poisoning (1%)
Avoid smoking tobacco products and other forms of tobacco such as snuff and chewing tobacco, which are certainly a waste of money, are highly addictive and may lead to cancer.
Always look both ways when crossing the street, it may seen trivial, but you never want to take chances with your life.
Take care of your teeth, bad dental health with its constant inflammation has been linked to other health problems outside of the mouth, including elevated cholesterol in blood vessels.
Resting up for another brisk walk...
Get adequate sleep to maintain health and natural biorhythms , rest and relaxation while having an active lifestyle.
The joy of the Lord brings longer life...
Participating in activities at your church, community or city recreation and senior centers will lead to more satisfaction, joy and longer life.
Avoid tanning and exposure to the ultra-violet light of tanning beds and the sun.
Tanning along with sunburn damages the skin, promotes age spots and causes skin cancer which can metastasize (spread) to other organs.
Drink a small juice glass of red wine for soothing the nerves, digestive tract and circulatory system.
Some people find that the time for their wine is just before bed to help going to sleep.
Take your daily calcium supplement at bedtime to soothe the stomach and settle the nerves which helps restful sleep.
Dark green vegetables are rich source of calcium and other
Have a small amount of dark chocolates -- bittersweet, semisweet or sweet -- in candies and as condiments sprinkled or melted and drizzled over other foods.
Waiting for the Senior Center to Open...
Drink a cup of decaffeinated coffee each day as it is good for the nerves and the heart.
Maintain a healthy, balanced diet with high-fiber cereals/bread, lean meats, fish and fresh vegetables and some fruit.
Avoid excessive processed foods which include, processed sugars, salt, processed flour products, hydrogenated fats or animal fats : including gravies, ice cream and rich desserts.
Drink about 8 glasses of water daily.
Drink green tea and other kinds of freshly brewed teas.
Avoid sugared drinks, carbonated drinks, as well as cream and whole milk.
Take supplements such as extra vitamin-C, fish oil, red rice yeast, calcium, co-enzyme-Q10, glucosamine with chondroitan and multi-vitamins with minerals.
Swimming will keep you younger longer.
Create a thorough fitness plan of rotations using different kinds of exercises in weight training and on machines for all parts of the body.