addressHave good manners.
Hold doors open for people, acknowledge the help of others with a 'thank you', eat politely (i.e. no talking with food in your mouth, using utensils, and eating slowly, which is better for conversation and digestion), etc.
Have real beauty , real spirit, real fitness.
Be genuinely interested in everything you do - try to view challenges positively.
Be real in your relationships by being honest and upfront.
Refuse to take part in being mean to other girls, even if your friends are.
Good people don't put other people down.
Look for the good in people, not the bad.
Use money wisely, by considering your purchases.
Is this something you've wanted for a while and have considered?
Or is it just something that caught your eye and you have enough money to buy it?
Also, think about saving a little money.
It's good practice for later in life and savings are always good in a pinch - like a pair of jeans you really want, but mom's done school shopping.
Exercise ! Do it every day for about 30 or more minutes.
Exercising increases endorphins that relieve stress and actually make you feel happier.
It also reduces risk for diseases like breast cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer's, and heart disease.
Brush your teeth (twice a day or after your meals).
Make sure your look at your teeth as you brush - don't apply a lot of pressure, but make sure you're brushing along the gum line to remove plaque and that you're scrubbing the tops of your molars (the easiest place to get cavities).
Brush your tongue when you're finished for good breath.
Floss your teeth (once a day).
Place the floss between your teeth and pull down so it rubs against the tooth then back up, repeating for the tooth next to it.
This prevents bacteria between the teeth that can lead to very painful cavities that are harder to treat.
Ask your hygienist for tips.
Wash your face with facial cleanser.
Look for a gentle one that doesn't leave your skin feeling squeaky clean, because this can cause dryness and irritation that can lead to breakouts.
Moisturize afterwards, especially if you have dry skin.
If you have oily skin, use an oil free one.
Keep your nails clean and not too long or short.
Trim them if they start to break, because they'll shred worse if not.
Also, take a shower every day.
It will keep you clean and can be a good way to relax and refresh.
Make sure you moisturize dry areas (like your legs and feet) to prevent itchy skin.