toolsImagine yourself being successful.
Einstein said that the imagination is more important than knowledge.
The more vividly and accurately you imagine your success, the easier it will be for the rest of your self to follow through.
The same way engineers first imagine a bridge and then build it, you can be the engineer of your success by dedicating a few minutes every day for the mental movies of your success.
Surround yourself with other people who are successful.
When you're surrounded with people who are highly-driven, it's encouraging.
Start with the basics: Willpower, effort, goals, and determination.
Whatever you want to accomplish requires all of these.
Define the meaning of success as you see it.
You cannot have success if you do not know what it means for you.
Everyone views success differently.
Set clear goals and be realistic.
How will you know when you've achieved your goals?
Your standards should be quantifiable, or else you could spend your entire life chasing after a vague goal.
For example, let's say you want to be good at your job.
You get a promotion , you get a raise , but you still haven't reached your goal because you could always do better, right?
You could always get promoted even further, or make even more money.
Whatever you have will never be enough.
Instead, create benchmarks: "My goal is to increase my productivity by 30% and only be late for work five times per year, at the most."
These are quantifiable goals that when achieved, give you a sense of satisfaction and completion, making you feel successful and confident.
Finding the purpose or goal of your life.
Identify the things you love to do, the things that give you satisfaction.
Once you identify what you love to do, use this information to find the purpose of your life or the objective of your life.
It is equally important to target what you love.
Imagine yourself participating in a marathon race despite the fact that your true passion is swimming.
What will happen?
You might have success in something you dislike, but you wont get satisfaction.
Set a time line on when you want to achieve your objective.
If you don't know when you will achieve your objective then you will never know when you will achieve it.
Identify the things/skills/material needed to achieve your objectives.
For Example, If you want to be a famous speaker, you need a broad vocabulary, subject knowledge, speech writing, voice clarity, presentation skills.
This is identifying short term objectives to achieve long term goals.
Identify the skills you need to sharpen and the skills you can outsource.
In the last example in order to become a great speaker you need to improve voice and presentation skills as these are the basic skills needed for a speaker, but if you are lacking speech writing or subject knowledge, you can outsource them to some expert.
This is called working smart, many of the great leaders don't write their own speech, They focus on delivering it right.
Execute your small objectives, focus on your main objective.
Yes you need to execute what you thought and you need to start executing your dreams right now(Start with the first step immediately).
Study successful people.
Look around--who has the success that you envision for yourself?
What are they doing?
How do they approach life?
Become their apprentice.
Ask them for advice.
Spend time around them, if you can.
Learn from them.
Take risks.
Step out of your comfort zone.
Successful people think big and act big.
It can be a scary thing to do, but if you don't, then will you ever be successful?
Don't wait for opportunities to fall in your lap.
Sniff them out.
Successful people make big investments (in their careers, in their businesses, in their education) and all investments involve risk.
But don't be reckless.
Study your risks, make sure the odds are in your favor, then take a leap.
Be bold.
Solve problems.
People who are successful encourage progress by solving problems and answering questions.
No matter where you are or what you're doing, look around and try and think of ways you can contribute.
What are people struggling with or complaining about?
How can you make life easier for them in an effective way?
Can you re-design or re-organize some aspect of the situation so that things run more smoothly?
Can you create a product or provide a service that fills a critical gap?
Be proactive and resourceful.
Be persistent.
Don't give up.
If your first attempt didn't work, don't quit.
When asked about his 10,000 failed attempts to develop a storage battery, the prolific American inventor Thomas Edison responded: "I have not failed, I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work."
[1]
Remember that success does not guarantee happiness.
Success is equated with the achievement of a goal, but don't assume it will always bring happiness.
Many people make the mistake that if they accomplish this or that, they'll be happier , but fulfillment and satisfaction have a lot more to do with how you approach life than with what you do in life.
Keep that in perspective.
Gather as much information about anything & everything.
Listen.
Study.
Understand.
Learn.
Knowledge is power.
Accept life is unfair, some people are born with disabilities and you need to accept this fact but remember this also gives you unfair advantage.
You can stop wasting time about the unfairness and think how to use the situation for your benefit.
Remember Newton could have complained about the Apple falling down the tree could hit his head...but instead he identified the Law of Gravitation and known as The Father of Physics.
Accept Failure, Understand behind every Success there is a Failure...to understand this just think why we invented Aircrafts, because we Failed to fly ourself.
Why we need to get a Pay hike, because we failed to buy the things we loved.
May be you failed to marry the person you loved but succeed in marrying a person who loved you.
Maybe you failed to receive a payhike because you succeeded in getting a new great job leaving the comfort zone of previous job.