interestsTalk to your parents . Ask questions if you need to better understand.
If one parent has shared this news you should make sure the other parent is aware of the decision before you say anything.
It is not your place to inform the other parent.
You may have to be firm but they should be the one who informs the other parent of their wish to divorce.
Don't blame them for not wanting to have the discussion but do not agree to have it for them.
Realize the decision to tell the children was very difficult and probably a major point in the process.
Be sensitive.
You probably have not lived with them for some time and are not aware of all the issues that have developed
Find out who else is aware of the pending divorce.
If your siblings or step-siblings do not know, wait until your parents have had time to discuss it with each of them.
Make sure your parents inform your other siblings as soon as possible.
You don't want them finding out the wrong way from the wrong person.
You will need to work on this as a family and that means the family being informed.
Make sure each parent has quality time with their grandchildren and they feel included
Talk to your parents, siblings and spouse and try to determine the best time to inform your children of their grandparents' divorce.
Consider how far you live from your parents, siblings and other relatives.
If they are at risk from learning this information from another relative or family friend you should make time to have a family meeting and share the news.
Explain to your children that you will be helping your parents as much as possible and your attention may be divided.
Explain that it doesn't change who their grandparents are, they will still be grandmother and grandfather.
Encourage them to still speak and interact with them individually.
Consider the maturity of the child and their closeness to their grandparents.
Discuss the situation with your siblings
Make sure you have a solid line of communication with them.
Agree to discuss things openly and honestly.
Agree to not take sides but to share information and help each other and your parents get through this tough time.
Discuss the situation with your step-siblings if your parent has remarried.
It will be natural for everyone to take the side and look out for the best interest of the birth parent.
At least try to be objective and keep the lines of communication open with your step-siblings.
Try to be supportive and let them know you are available should they need anything.
Let your parents know that you will be as supportive as you can but you don't want to feel pressured to take sides.
Ask them to refrain from disparaging comments about your other parent.
Because you are older and less impressionable by your parents this may not be as big of an issue.
Discuss this approach with your siblings.
Remember that previous divorces, especially where there were custody battles, may have made your parents bitter and offensive about the divorce process.
Keep calm and don't encourage aggressive legal behavior.
Ask your siblings to do the same.
The divorce process may actually be much easier with the children grown.
Ask how you can help.
You may be needed to help sort and move property.
You may be needed for moral support
You and your siblings may need to help a parent arrange for lawn care, help with laundry, etc. if that was something your other parent maintained.
Ask if you and/or your siblings need to attend meetings with attorneys or financial planners.
Make sure your parents revise their wills , medical powers of attorney, etc.
Make sure you understand your parents' long term wishes and instructions in the event of their death.
Burial arrangements may need to be changed following a divorce.
Discuss with your parents any medical wishes or other long term care details that would have previously been the decision of the spouse.
Your parents may have avoided that conversation with you since you were the child and assumed the spouse would take care of those arrangements.
Find out where your parents want to be buried
Ask if there are family burial plots that have been purchased.
If the divorce will exclude a parent from the plot ask the parent where he/she would like to be buried.
If either parent has medical problems you should try to attend a doctor's appointment with that parent.
Get an understanding of the condition, the medications and make sure the doctor's office changes the next of kin listed on the file.
Discuss holiday plans, events for the grandchildren and other family gatherings with your siblings.
Make sure you spend time with each parent and do your best not to exclude the other parent from holiday plans or other events.
Perhaps move family gatherings to your home or siblings house instead of your parents' home.
If you do visit a parent who doesn't cook, offer to cook something there or make it potluck.
Consider having your mother over for lunch on a holiday and your father over for dinner.
Don't let your parents cause too much stress in your life.
Remember, you still have a family to care for.
Step back when you need a break from it.
Know your limits . Because you are very close to the situation and trusted by both it will be very easy to get sucked in too deep.
They may start confusing your role as a child with a psychologist or attorney.
It's alright to let them vent but make sure you aren't letting a parent's negativity damage your quality of life.
If a parent becomes too co-dependent you may need to back away and become less available.
Resist taking on a parental role with your parents.
Let them make their own decisions.
Offer advice and even suggest professional help but try not to preach or become too involved.
You may need to declare that the discussion of divorce is off limits for a particular day or event.
Encourage them to talk about other things and get their mind off the subject for a while.
Help your parents find hobbies and make new friends.
Encourage your parents to get involved with volunteer work or social activities to keep them busy and prevent loneliness.
Help them find hobbies and activities that involve other older adults with similar interest.
Encourage them to explore interests they never tried when they were married.