ConfidenceBecome MOTIVATED . This will ultimately start you off to having a great summer instead of a boring, sit-around one.
Try to start out with something you enjoy, then think of things you could weave INTO that something you enjoy!
(Ex: 1.
You enjoy playing an instrument.
Hmm...
2.
Maybe I could make up a song and play it using my instrument!)
Another great way to get motivated is to just DO IT.
It is often found that when people start something, they might just enjoy it/want to do more of it!
Get in touch with your friends.
If they're away, make new ones.
Ask your friends if they know anyone who's going to stick around for the summer, get their numbers, call them up and say "I'm a friend of ______.
He/she told me you were going to be around this summer.
Wanna hang out?"
And if you're too shy, try calling people you've lost touch with over the years- these are people you already know you can get along with.
Plus, you'll have a ton to talk about, either catching up on what you've both been up to or reminiscing.
Ride a bike ! Go swimming!
Try not to stay inside all day, you'll just get even more depressed because there's no action going on and the chemicals being sent to your brain are all negative.
Of course it's more complicated than that, but think about it, has just sitting around ever merited anything good?
Go to the beach or the pool.
Play Marco Polo and have chicken fights, where people sit on each other's shoulders and try to knock each other off.
Have swimming races.
Do underwater acrobatics.
Make cold, refreshing smoothies . Try different, even wacky combinations.
Make an afternoon out of it: Go to the supermarket and buy weird, interesting ingredients like ketchup and pistachios.
Experiment.
Make a gross smoothie and dare your friends to drink it.
Have a barbecue.
Eat burgers, hot dogs, and iced tea.
Play bingo on the porch.
Have everyone bring in cool prizes that you can compete for.
Go camping ! If you can't go to a campsite, try your own backyard(but pick up the dog poop).
Get a tent and tell spooky stories.
Have someone you know and trust sneak up on your tent and scare the heck out of your friends!
Keep your mind active.
Solve puzzles, organize and clean, and learn new things (summer is an excellent time to get a head start on the next term).
Studies have shown that your I.Q. drops significantly during long sessions of limited use, such as summer.
Tape you and your friends/family reenacting your favorite movie.
Post them on YouTube or send it in to a talent agency!
Do crafts if you are alone.
Make a scrapbook of your friends!
Talk to a pet.
Spill your most embarrassing or well kept secrets.
Make sure no one is around to hear!
And who knows, maybe your pet will talk back. ;-)
Organize your room.
Make it bright and fun to be in.
See how many kinds of different wild flowers you can find in your yard.
Make a bouquet.
Be sure no one planted them!!
Plan a summer party.
Invite some friends over, get some water balloons, a radio, and bring lots of food!
Great way to have fun.
Try spending some time with your parents.
This may seem totally dorky, but trust me, it can be really fun.
Ask your Dad to play catch in the park, or take your Mom to the spa for some manicures and facials!
Try not to totally neglect them over the summer, and try to be nice!
Paint your room.
If your walls aren't looking that great, go out, buy some posters, picture frames, etc. Ask your parents if you can paint your room, and pick a cool color that you adore and are SURE that you will like it for at least a couple years.
Update your wardrobe.
Sort through your clothes, and pick out the ones that you don't want/are too small for you.
Have a garage sale with some friends, and ask them to bring some clothes/other items they don't want.
Sell as much as you can, and whatever doesn't sell, give it to charity.
With the money you earned, go to your favorite shop and buy some better clothes.
Read old magazines.
A simple, but fun way to find ideas on what to do.
Write a novel.
It can be about anything at all.
You could start a project with a friend where you both write a story along the same theme.
If you don't want to share it with people you know you can upload it onto the internet and share it with others, or you could just keep it to yourself.
Try to go to Six Flags, or an amusement park over the summer at least once.
This is a really fun way to turn a boring summer day into a roller-coaster marathon!
Also, spending time with your dog, if you have one, is a great way to spend time.
Often they are awesome to talk to about how bored you feel, since often they feel pretty bored themselves.
Take them for walks (great way to lose weight, get a tan, and probably meet some new people), play in the yard, etc.
Grab a pair of binoculars and go bird watching or people watching.
Start a journal and list what kind of bird or interesting people you found, where you found it, and the date it was seen.
If you are more of an artsy person, you can sketch a picture of the bird or person.
To go along with the people watching don't snoop in people's backyards.
Take a nap !
Exercise ! Go running and jogging and work out.
It makes you feel good, you might lose weight, or just do something active, and it tests you.
Edit wikiHow articles.
Or read or make them!
Make Profiles for yourself and friends : Write a list of questions like Favorite book or movie or actor and such and have a friend fill them out.
Add pictures and decorations to snazz it up!
Give things Theme Songs :Come up with of list of random things, places, and people and then write down a list of songs.Give each thing on your first list a song according to which song on the second list it reminds you of!
Make a Heart Fold :A heart fold is a piece of paper you fold in half and fill or cover with decorations and sayings and writing and pictures that represent you or make you feel good or happy or however it is you like to feel.
Fold a regular piece of paper in half and fill it up!
Make Wish Flags : Cut out rectangular pieces of paper and write a wish in the center.
Decorate around your wish and punch a hole through the top.
Hang it on a string and string it up in your room or on your door or wherever you want!
Make a Radio Show : Get a tape recorder and a blank tape and some buds!
Write up a list of things you want to include on your show like music,jokes,interviews,and advertisements.
Write Family Fan Letters : Write a letter to your favorite friend or family member telling them why they're so awesome!
Go on a nice long walk.
It's a good way to prevent boredom and get some fresh air.
Also it's a great way to think about things and clear your head.
Try innovative arts.
If you don't know what that is, it is where the actual painting doesn't matter and the painting is judged by how you make it(ex.
Taking a high power fan, taking the cage off, peeling a banana, dipping it in 5 colors of paint 10 times, then shoving the banana into the fan.
If any actually gets on the board it is your project.)
Do really random stuff like teach yourself to yo-yo or try juggling.
Sometimes you might find something you're really good at that you didn't know you would like.
Study a new subject like calculus or organic chemistry.
If that stuff isn't for you then you could also do AP World History classes online.
It's really fun and it makes you get in touch with your history loving side.
Get a summer girlfriend/boyfriend, it may sound lame, but it's always fun learning about someone else.
Go on dates with that person!
Get in touch with your inner-child.
Grab some friends or neighborhood kids and play Hide-and-Seek.
Race cars that drive past your block.
Maybe even finger-paint if you're feeling extra childish.
Play video games ! Make sure you only do it for about 2-4 hours though.
Mario Kart Wii is a great time-waster.
Stalk people on Facebook.
It's a great way to find out everything about random people.
And who knows, if you talk to them, maybe you will make a new friend!
Make bottle rockets !
Grab a friend.
Both of you get a 2 liter bottle of Diet Coke.
Both of you should put mentos in each bottle.
When the fountain sprouts, see whose fountain goes up higher!
(Make sure you each put the same amount of mentos!)
Make sure to use mint mentos, because flavored ones have a coating that don't make them explode well.
Get a Summer job ! It'll keep you busy and you'll earn money for new stuff!
Learn a language.
Volunteer.
Helping your community will give you a good feeling about yourself and will also make good use of your time.
Try something in the sun like a beach clean, or working with animals.
volunteering also looks good on college applications!
Make a film ! Get some friends over and brainstorm some wacky fairytale ideas, then make bin bag paper mache costumes and improvisation, then have fun learning how to edit the movie, a bit of sepia there, some sound warping here...
Make a "commitment".
Promise yourself to commit to a project and complete it.
You could try growing your own vegetables, learning a new language, a musical instrument, etc
Have a clothes swap (more aimed at girls), get all your friends over bringing a few key pieces, try to make sure your the same size to avoid embarrassment, and you could find something you LOVE
Make your own beauty treatments, there are hundreds of natural DIY recipes- mashed avocados make a great face mask ! So open up your cupboards.
Try writing a song.
Write some poetry.
Get a new haircut.
Take a bunch of pictures & videos to commemorate it all !
Make a Solar Hot Air Balloon . These balloons can travel hundreds of miles in a day, and are very easy to make.
Sing a song or play music.
Go on a mini vacation.
Grab a couple friends and turn your room into a palace, or the jungle, or a hotel, or whatever.
Buy some cool food and wacky "souveniers", and have a vacation (i.e. sleepover) at your house.
Ideas: complementary breakfast, set chocolates on people's pillows, fold towels, set everything up nicely.
Go to the pool