Establish what you can do for your cause.
If you're reading this, it's assumed you've found something that inspires you to action.
Whether it's morality, politics, the environment , the education system, the local community garden, or the global economic system, it's important to refine the elements of your activism so that you have focus points and so that what you do is manageable.
Of course, what you define as manageable is entirely up to you but be sure that you have the needed energy and time resources available to pursue your activism to the extent you'd like.
Ask yourself how much time you have, whether you want to do a little or a lot, and how confident you feel about taking different approaches, such as simply talking to other people you know through to addressing whole crowds.
While it's great to think big, it's also important to think small and gradual.
Incremental change can be as important, and often more enduring, than massive change that happens quickly and disrupts people in a major way.
Think through all the possibilities for slowly unleashing change through your school, workplace, community, town, region, country, or the world.
I am my Brother's Keeper
Source your passion . Passion often comes from a sudden realization that changes your life forever.
Dr. Mildred Jefferson recalls when she realized, "Yes!
I am my brothers keeper!" and she went on to a lifetime of Pro-Life activism.
And once the realization hits you, it is what will stoke the embers of your activism, even at the lowest points when you sometimes feel like giving up.
Passion derives from awareness.
Once you're aware of something in the world that you believe needs fixing, changing, or overhauling, that awareness will dog you constantly and cause you to see the need everywhere, bringing a sense of responsibility with it.
Always believe that you can make a difference.
There are occasional arguments that start "How much good can one individual do?" that then collapse into a self-piteous retreat into it all being too hard and resorting to maintaining the status quo.
Avoid that type of despairing thinking because one dedicated and persistent person can make a difference.
Laurie David says that the "solution is you" [] and that is an important mantra to keep in mind when it all feels overwhelming.
Be realistic about your own needs.
Activism may be about changing thinking slowly rather than achieving the actual change you'd like to see.
In this case, it is wise to understand the possibility that during your lifetime, you may be at the front of simply paving the way for eventual change than viewing it actually occurring.
Understanding this can help alleviate a sense of frustration , doom, and resentment about your cause.
Amanda Sussman says that the very first question an activist needs to ask themselves is: "Are you happy with striving for an ideal, even if you never reach it?
Do you need to see immediate progress, even if it's small, to keep you going?"
[2] She suggests that you need to decide whether you're a radical activist or a reformer activist.
The radical activist is someone who needs to continue pushing for fundamental change and will use such means as protests , boycotts, alternative summits, etc., and generally tends to be wary of those people who sit in the institutions they want changed.
On the other hand, she says a reformist is happy to work with those in the institutions they'd like to see changed, using to tools of democracy to work within the existing structure to force social or political progress.
[3] Yet, to complicate things even more, Professor Anthony Weston then posits that radical change is often an inside job!
[4] He points out that not all parts of the system will resist you and that there are multiple ways to use the system for change, "right now and right in the belly of the beast".
[5] With these theories about the role of activists in mind, make up your own mind how you're going to define your approach and whether you're change from within, or change from without, and how that will impact your approaches.
Naturally, Sussman's approach presumes you're living in a democracy.
If you're living with an authoritarian or totalitarian regime, working with the tools of that regime probably won't get you anywhere.
Read books about activism.
One of the most inspiring and helpful means for getting more deeply involved in activism is to read broadly in the field of activism.
In particular, seek out books written by prominent activists who have tips for activism derived from personal experience.
The books mentioned in this article are a good start.
Then, read widely within the cause itself, to both understand the issues clearly but also to learn about the tactics, ideas, experiences, wins and losses, and other useful information from those who have already been active in this cause.
Read books on how to use and work with the media.
This type of book is invaluable for increasing your understanding as to how media works and also to avoid being naive about the agenda of media representatives.
Most of all, learn how to work with the media.
Activism derives power from its ability to educate, raise awareness, and make people passionate about an issue.
Though you can do some of this on your own, especially through the internet, the media is an invaluable tool when used well.
Get in touch with folks who know how to craft press releases , write an editorial, and contact the press.
Know the laws, legislative , administrative, and judicial processes of your country and/or region.
Knowing how to effect change to laws and how to make the most of the legislative system is important for every activist.
Obviously, the more open your political system, the better chances you have of making use of these processes but it behooves every activist to know these processes well.
It doesn't necessarily mean you will be prepared to use them yourself but it does allow you to inform others that these processes exist and can be used by those willing to do so.
Choose your method of activism.
While activism can take hundreds of forms, approach this as being about utilizing your own talents and resources as best you can.
You are in the best position to decide how you can achieve your goals as an activist, along with the time frame, and whether or not you go it alone.
Consider the following:
Do you want to work solo?
With the advent of online broadcasting to the world, being an individual activist is easier now than ever, as you can use forums, videos, photos, websites, blogs, social networking, and even advertising to get across your messaging.
On the downside, being the only person working on the issue can be lonely, and a lot of work.
Sometimes it may cause you to question whether you're on the right track or whether it's worth pursuing.
Do you want to work with others?
You could join an existing group or start your own and request for collaborators.
One of the advantages of being part of a group is the extended power, resources, networks, and passion involved.
It's also an excellent opportunity to practice your conflict resolution skills and to learn how to work with others, skills that aren't always easy to perfect!
You may also want to collaborate loosely without putting together a permanent structure, for example by inviting collaborators to post on a group blog or get together a biannual zine.
How do you want to put across your message?
This is about recognizing what you're best at and what you know deep down you'll be able to keep contributing without wearing yourself down.
Would you like to contribute to your cause through writing, teaching, speaking, planning events, or art?
Or perhaps you're great with website building, blogging, or podcasts ? Assess your talents realistically, along with the time and resources you have available.
Find out who is already doing things in the cause you're keen on
Research existing efforts.
Most causes already have some action going on at the local, regional, national, or international level.
Find out what exists now and where you fit in.
One thing that you don't want to do is to reinvent the wheel and make more work for yourself or worse, to confuse things with your input.
Try hard to liaise with existing efforts and consider whether you'll form a part of that or somehow bolster it in constructive ways but independently.
Ask yourself these questions:
Do you want to volunteer with or join the board of an existing group?
Do you want to find a paid job with an activist organization?
If you're working at the local level, does a national organization have resources you can use?
Often, you can use resources from a larger organization for things like information, legal research, fliers , strategy suggestions, and mentoring.
How will you create networks or liaisons with existing activist organizations that will be of benefit both ways and that will ultimately support the cause in solidarity?
Where you find no existing efforts, avoid seeing this as a mammoth task of insurmountable proportions.
Instead, break it down into small pieces, and definitely aim to get other like-minded people on board.
This is easier now that we can rely upon the internet for connecting easily use Twitter, Facebook , forums, blogs, websites, and the like, to get the ball rolling.
Get organized ! If you want to start your own activist group, you will need to get some committed people together and create a solid plan of action.
Gather a group or core committee of people who are willing to work on a permanent or ad hoc basis.
Decide from the beginning what your goal is: Do you want to stage a variety of actions to achieve a particular achievable goal, and then disband when it's achieved?
Do you want to form a permanent group that works on different projects surrounding a particular topic?
Or do you only want to work together for a single action, for example to coordinate a protest or fundraising effort?
Write up your group's goals.
Put your goals in writing and sketch out a basic plan that highlights what you need, what you want to achieve, and some of the big steps that are obviously going to be necessary to achieve your goals.
Schedule meetings.
Regular meetings of your core committee and subcommittees, if any, will ensure that you can track your goals and coordinate everyone's efforts towards the common project.
Set meeting dates well in advance and publicize meetings widely.
Make sure you have a location reserved in advance, whether it's a physical place or a virtual meeting technology like conference calls or a chat room.
Some possible meeting locations include school/classroom, the public library, someone's house, the park, municipal/community building, teen center, community center, coffee shop/cafe, treehouse , church hall, etc.
What messages are you putting out?
Learn how to message effectively . One thing that distresses time-poor, financially-tight, and already overworked people is being told that whatever they're doing is wrong and dreadful.
This kind of messaging is bound to make people bite the messenger and turn right away from the message.
As such, while maintaining your passion, also maintain a sense of courtesy, respect and a basic understanding of motivational psychology.
In a nutshell, nobody likes being told that how they're living is wrong and surely you don't either.
Instead, focus on enlightening people about societal and individual practices that have outlived their usefulness and provide alternatives that are realistic and obtainable.
Remember that when you participate in activism, you're a visionary and as such, you have an obligation to build a picture of how things could be better.
Professor Anthony Weston has several excellent suggestions in his book How to Re-Imagine the World , when it comes to sharing your vision with others: [6]
Have an affirmative vision, one that shows what you are for , not just what you're against;
Consider how you can show people what the concerns are and what can improve the situation.
Showing is always more powerful than talking about it;
Remember that fear is at the heart of much resistance.
Fear of job loss and lifestyle downgrading are two particular fears that drive much resistance to activist messaging.
If you're not offering alternatives that are viable, doable, and respecting of the people who may be impacted, don't be surprised if they resent your call for change;
Create a whole vision rather than a piecemeal one.
How do you envisage a future in which the changes your advocating for have happened?
Paint that vision for everyone and let them imagine themselves in it;
Learn how to think outside of the box.
Flip your usual understandings on their head and see how you can work with the new understandings.
See the problem as the solution.
This one may be the most challenging but it's also the most exciting, creative, and innovative approach to problems.
Delve into the complexity of the problem and draw out the strands that promise solutions with a little refocusing and rethinking.
Get the message out.
Once you've learned the basics of affirmative, motivational messaging techniques, be ready to spread the word.
There are so many possible publicity methods available to you that it's best to concentrate on what you're good at doing and what fits in with your time and other resources.
Some suggestions for getting publicity for your cause include:
Fliers : Create a flier that lists the name of your organization, time/date you meet, where and what exactly your organization does.
Hang the fliers around school, the neighborhood (but first check to see if there are city codes about where public info is allowed; you don't want to risk a fine), community bulletin boards, inside coffee shops or cafes, etc.
Table-sit: See if you can rent a table, either in school, university, or somewhere local, like outside of the supermarket or in the park.
Have a sign-up list, info about your organization and colorful posters to attract people (and having free stuff isn't a bad idea either).
Use the web: There are many great websites dedicated to finding volunteers.
Publicize exactly what you need online and consider contacting schools, churches, student associations, friends, family, and community groups online for additional support.
Introduce yourself : The absolute best way to get people interested in your cause is through face-to-face contact.
A person is more likely to respond if they feel like they're wanted and needed in a group.
The person can ask questions and get more information.
So don't hesitate to walk up to the girl reading a magazine in the coffee shop she might be looking for the group you're starting.
Use subcommittees if you've created your own group.
If many people are involved in your group or have signed on as temporary volunteers, it may be helpful to form subcommittees.
These can be useful for large groups that are doing multiple projects or multiple actions towards the same goal.
Here are some examples of subcommittees that you might need for a single large action like a benefit concert, charity race, or protest march:
Public Relations : This subcommittee does all of the canvassing, especially right before the event.
They also handle any ads that appear in campus or local papers or on radio or television.
They book tables for table sitting and help create banners and posters to hang around the area.
They also serve as a press contact to drum up media attention surrounding the event.
Outreach: This subcommittee liaises with other organizations, local businesses, and anyone that might be able to support the event through advertising, funding, in-kind donations of space or food, etc.
Logistics: This subcommittee takes care of all practical matters such as scheduling, booking performers, finding needed equipment and services, getting necessary permits, arranging for parking, taking care of food, etc.
Financial: This subcommittee keeps track of the event budget and makes thing everything runs smoothly where money is concerned.
Tasks include creating a budget, paying performers and service providers, setting any event prices, arranging for donations, and identifying pre-event fundraising needs.
Expect dissent . Change worries most people and can cause them to react in ways that are not always considerate or constructive.
There are varying levels of negativity that you'll need to be prepared for, and have your responsiveness worked out in advance:
Dissent within the cause: It is good to self-question and rather than being upset by those within the cause dissenting, try to examine their reasons more closely.
Always wonder first if they actually have a point and seek to re-examine your approach in the light of their dissent.
This doesn't mean that you need to change your approach unless you find it wanting, but it does mean that keeping an open mind will ultimately make your cause stronger and more watertight.
Always ask: "What can I learn here?".
Remain egalitarian, non-violent, and focused on the cause, not on the people as dissenters.
Dissent from outside the cause: This is to be expected.
You're challenging the status quo.
You will go through many experiences, including having people question your knowledge/authority/facts/respect and even your sanity on occasion.
Keep calm and keep a level head.
Some of the dissent will be obvious stalling, spin , and covering-up tactics.
Other times it will be more subtle, malicious, and harmful.
Know when to respond and when to keep quiet, and know when to bring your lawyer in.
Expressed hatred, whether or not the cause is properly understood: There are always some who like the fray and being hateful is a way of being heard for the small-minded person.
Pure hatred and vindictiveness needs to be treated with calm and care.
If you feel threatened in any way, get the police involved.
If it's just pure spite, do your best to ignore it unless you're extremely verbally witty, in which case, you can probably roll with the verbal punches, with care.
However, bear in mind that most people will see pure hatred for what it is and often, letting it speak for itself and not interfering will do more than trying to respond.
When you feel like this, be gentle on yourself and regroup
Don't work yourself into the ground.
When you're tired, worn out, and at your wit's end, that's when activism can turn negative.
That's when the nasty thoughts can creep in about blaming everyone else for the way the world isn't turning out right, at which point you'll have lost both your perspective over the motivations behind people's behavior and you've fallen for generalizing about everything being bad and feeling helpless rather than powerful.
Get plenty of rest.
Take breaks from your activism and refresh your thoughts about where it's headed.
If you feel obsessed, then maybe you are.
Learn how to tell the difference between obsession and passion; passion is a driving force that you pursue with full awareness while obsession is a driving-into-the-ground force often pursued without engaging in the why and the how of where you're headed.
If you find yourself hating people, snapping at them, and thinking dark, ominous thoughts about what you'd like to do to a generalized portion of the population, take this as a warning sign to pull back and reassess your direction and purpose.
Expect down times.
Sometimes it will feel as if all your efforts have come to naught, or that things are stagnating.
Anything to do with progress meets such plateaus; knowing to expect them and learning how to ride them out is important.
Break through the stagnant times by making new associations and recombining your existing approaches with new ones.
Rely on the internet ; as Weston says, "the Web is weedy too", and given its ability to keep on springing up everywhere, what better place to allow change to manifest and live on?
He also suggests anything able to meander across borders, like sports, couch surfing, philosophers, youth networks, and visionary communities of elders.
[] Think about ways that you can ensure your activism will sprawl and take root, no matter what poisons of despair and fear are thrown at it.