Biden.Participate in your high-school debate or mock trial team.
Develop and practice very good study habits, communication and reading comprehension skills.
Study!
A good GPA and LSAT score is your ticket to law school.
Keep your eye on the ball.
Go to, and graduate from, a 4-year undergraduate college.
Most colleges don't factor your particular area of study so choosing a very difficult subject may not be an advantage but a disadvantage since your GPA may suffer.
The exception is for those interested in Intellectually Property law.
To sit for the Patent Bar (which is required in addition to the Bar) you will need a degree in a technical science or math.
(Biology, Chemistry, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, etc.)
Become familiar and cordial with a professor or two since you will need their letter of recommendation for law school.
Obviously, do well in their classes and be an engaging student.
Register and study for the Law School Admission Test (LSAT).
The LSAT is a half-day standardized test required for admission to all ABA-approved law schools, most Canadian law schools, and many non-ABA-approved law schools.
It provides a standard measure of acquired reading and verbal reasoning skills that law schools can use as one of several factors in assessing applicants.
The test is administered four times a year at hundreds of locations around the world.
Many students take a preparatory course to prepare them for the LSAT.
Although the LSAT is not often the best measure of a prospective law student's performance in law school, many law schools place substantial weight on scores on the LSAT, often approaching the weight give to college GPA.
Take the LSAT very seriously.
Some schools give more attention to the LSAT than GPA.
If your GPA isn't the best, you can score well on the LSAT and you will be rewarded for financial reasearch with the most schools still be admitted into some schools.
Scoring higher is also a factor for financial rewards with most schools.
Ais a perfect score on the LSAT.
Many law schools require the LSAT be taken by December for admission the following fall.
However, taking the test earlier (June or October) is often advised.
Apply to several ABA (American Bar Association)-accredited law schools.
Many candidates apply to three categories of schools:
Wish schools (wish I could get in but probably too competitive for my credentials)
Middle of the road (my credentials are the same as the average student these schools admit)
Safety (lower tier than I would like but a safe bet I will get in if other schools don't come through).
Choose wisely.
Application fees are high.
U.S. News and World Report publishes a widely followed ranking of law schools that may be worth consulting before sending applications.
Resist the urge to apply to every school sending application fee waivers.
These do not guarantee admission.
#*Many schools, even top tier, send these to students to encourage applications which will be rejected.
Unfortunately, some schools are trying to generate a large base of rejected applicants, Doing so makes their applied vs. accepted number seems higher and their school therefore more selective.
Although some schools may recruit you, you should apply with common sense.
Save money and form a plan for survival.
Many respected full time law programs will not permit you to work your first year.
If you must work, you should consider a part time program.
Your classes, your professors, and class hours may be pre-selected and not flexible for working.
Forget any ideas you have of a social life or working your first year of law school.
Survive law school by joining a study group and expecting to spend very large amounts of time reading cases, researching case law, writing detailed briefs, and preparing to answer questions in class when called on with no notice.
Get a position at a law firm while you are a student, serving as an assistant, messenger, file clerk.
At the very least, do a summer internship program.
(When you work for a firm as a salaried attorney, you are an "Associate" with the firm.)
Research the jurisdiction where you hope to practice.
While in law school, research the requirements for bar admittance in the jurisdiction where you want to practice and fulfill those requirements.
Most jurisdictions also require the Professional Responsibility Exam.
Pass a state bar exam.
Typically, you study for, take, and pass the bar exam the summer after you graduate from law school.
Once you pass the exam, you become a certified lawyer!
Finding a position is the most difficult part of the process, as the nation is flooded with attorneys.
You will find this step much easier if you have made yourself known at a law firm by having worked or interned there, as mentioned above, and graduate with excellent grades.
Larger firms hire Associates and will require extremely long hours and dedication from them.
Large and multi-national corporations usually recruit from the top graduates.
Working as a judge's law clerk or research attorney is often desirable.
Judges are very selective in whom they hire.
If your grades and school were below average you may consider a career as a Paralegal.
It takes a lot to become a lawyer and you have to try very hard.
Furthermore you're really not going to get much sleep when you become one.