though.Define your goals . It's important to know exactly what you want before you put time and energy into building a career.
There are several questions you can ask yourself to make your goals clearer.
Is it more important to you to make change or to advance in a particular area of journalism?
If activism is your primary goal, and journalism only the means, you may become frustrated by working within mainstream newspapers, TV, or radio.
Alternative newspapers or online journalism may be more appropriate for you, although you risk earning a lot less, so be prepared to either find other sources of income or funding.
What medium is most comfortable for you?
For example, would you rather write or be on radio or camera?
Do you want to be covering breaking news or doing more in depth coverage of important issues?
How savvy are you with technology?
Your technical talents may lead you for example to blogging or photojournalism.
Do you want this to be a full-time career, or only part-time?
How much money do you need to make to stay afloat?
Again, journalism is not usually a lucrative career, and you may need to mix activist blogging , for example, with more neutral work that brings in more money.
Videoblogs are great for budding documentary film makers
Hone your skills.
Once you have your goals in mind, practice writing, speaking in front of a camera or into a microphone , interviewing, blogging, or whatever you plan to do.
You can always use a personal blog, videoblog, or podcast as practice and a resume builder.
Take classes where appropriate and learn the style used by journalists in your area.
Think about the style of writing you'd like to adopt.
Activist journalism carries with it a need to be conscious of the use of language and its hidden meanings or ability to shape readers' understandings.
Be prepared to reclaim language that has been altered or taken over by agendas that are not inclusive or compassionate.
Rethinking the way that language is used in mainstream media or by lobby groups is an important skill when you're an activist journalist.
Read widely and question widely.
It's important that you have a broad understanding of differing perspectives in any issue that you're going to cover.
This gives your work greater reliability and makes it harder to set aside as uninformed.
This requires you to have excellent research skills and the ability to work past your own opinions and beliefs, to try and see all of the angles involved.
Build a portfolio . If you want to get paying gigs as a journalist, you need examples of your work.
The Internet is a great tool to get your work out there, but you can also try other venues; for example, look for calls for submissions to magazines, write letters to the editor, or shop content around to people you know in the business.
Network and use your resources.
Networking is an extremely powerful tool in journalism, and especially in activist circles.
For example, if you want to get hired by a big progressive blog, you can start by getting active with social media and your own blog, leaving friendly comments for people who write there.
Ask around to see if any of your contacts know anyone who might be useful in your job search.
Resources like the Women's Media Center support progressive journalists and might be able to help you get a foot in the door.
Fellowships are another place to turn; for example, NPR has several great comprehensive fellowships that help young journalists learn about the world of public radio.
Belong to organizations that reflect your activist concerns and beliefs.
This will give you the opportunity to meet many people who are actively working to make a difference and you'll have plenty of interview and knowledge resources to call upon.
Ally yourself wherever you go, and try to do this beyond people whose ideas and causes gel with you.
There are always more than two sides to a story, and in Western society where we're trained to see daily life in terms of argument and confrontation, it can be too easy to lose this multiple perspective.
When looking for the multiple divergences in opinion, try to see the ways in which you can find common ground rather than conflict , and find people whose views have overlaps with your activist approach.
Often the best story draws the threads together rather than making the story into a two-sided contest.
Enable readers to draw upon your expertise as a source of developing and tailoring their own viewpoints and solutions.
Make it clear that you are facilitating understanding rather than being the last word on an issue.
The heart of activism is to enable others to do their part to help make a difference in the world.