therapy.Flying takes your life to new levels.
Pick up a copy of Microsoft Flight Simulator, or Laminar Research's X-Plane.
It doesn't have to be the latest version if your computer is older.
First go through the flying lessons and ground school.
You will learn a lot about the instruments and systems found in a typical trainer aircraft.
You will become familiar with maneuvers and procedures you will need to master for your private pilot exam.
Thus you will need to spend less time and money on actual flight lessons, which are quite expensive.
Use this program to learn the basics not for learning to actually fly, because a real plane is alot different than a toy.
Check out weather products such as METARS and TAFs even on days you don't fly.
See if conditions match what those products indicate.
That way, when you do fly, you'll have a higher confidence in the weather predictions.
Raise the nose of the airplane by pulling the control wheel toward you.
This will make the airplane climb or stall if you don't know what you are doing.
Pitch changes speed, power changes altitude.
Use the throttle control to help the airplane climb.
Push the control wheel away from you to descend, along with reducing power.
Push the right rudder pedal along with turning the stick right to turn right and vice versa for left
Your instructor, Certificated Flight Instructor (CFI), will probably charge for time on the ground as well as in the air.
This is not just a way for the CFI to generate more income.
If used wisely, you will become proficient more quickly than by just flying.
For example, if you study your intended flight prior to the flight lesson, you will optimize the time you spend with your CFI by having smarter questions and clearly understanding what you are going to do.
Additionally, you should have (insist upon) a thorough post-flight debrief - even if everything went picture perfect.
As you progress in your training these pre and post flight debriefs should get shorter.
Bottom line: your time on the ground with your CFI is very important - use your time wisely: gas is expensive!
Safe flying!