paperFreezerPanSpoonGet dark-brown/chestnut, wavy hair with caramel highlights and amber eyes.
If you don't have them, try a hair dye and colored contacts, but this isn't a necessity.
Wear make-up.
Massie wears subtle, trendy, and natural-looking make-up, like lip gloss, eyeshadow, blush, mascara, and bronzer.
Get what you think will look good with your colors.
If you have a strict family, or can't afford make-up right now, Massie is not the character for you (try Claire or Kristen).
If you think you have what it takes and this is the only dilemma you have, use chap-stick.
DO NOT buy any cheap make-up.
Don't buy foundation, cover-up, or powder from Claire's, because it could severely ruin your skin.
Wear cute clothes all the time because you never know when you are going to run into the cutie from science class.
You may want to get really expensive clothes if you can afford it like Prada, Gucci, Chanel, Juicy, etc. But if you can't, try cheaper (but still fashionable) cute clothing lines, such as L. A. M. B., A&F, American Eagle, PacSun, Hollister, and Forever 21.
Don't go any lower than that, and you need at least a few designer items, namely: at least one pair of designer jeans, at least 3 Juicy Couture tracksuit hoodies, a few designer jackets, a few designer tops, and ALL your shoes NEED to be designer.
Coach actually has pretty cheap shoes when they go on sale sometimes.
You also need Juicy sneakers, a few pairs of Nikes for any intense sports, at least 3 pairs of REAL UGGs and at least 2 pairs of designer heels, like Manolo Blahnik, Jimmy Choo, or Miu Miu.
Act like Massie.
She is the queen of come-backs.
She can outdo you in a flash.
She has numerous catchy come-backs.
If you want to act exactly like her, you have to develop a taste for fashion.
Try being part of a local community Lip Gloss Club or a mini fashion shoot.
Don't act too snobby, though, or your parents may ground you, and then you wouldn't be able to go to the mall.
That would be a total nightmare!
However, if that is a thing your parents would do, Massie probably isn't right for you.
Massie's parents are pretty, let's make that REALLY, chill!
Write a Current State of the Union.
In the books and movie, Massie has her own private (and sometimes public, as she does publish them to a blog and share them with others sometimes) way of sharing what is in and what is out.
Try writing one everyday, and reflect it on that day's events (i.e., if your friend was mean to you, she can be marked OUT, while someone else could be IN.
Same with adults, activities, objects, clothes, accessories, anything!).
Have a sidekick pet ! Massie is the only child, but in all the books, Massie has a sidekick: her cute dog, Bean.
She also has a white horse, Brownie.
If you have a pet, make him/her your sidekick pet.
In one of the books, her ringtone was even Bean barking!
Also, in all the books, Bean is included whenever the girls are at her home.
Try to include your pet whenever your friends are at your house!
Her favorite color is purple ! Make sure you have purple everything!
Massie also lives in a huge mansion and has a giagantic room with TONS of walk-in closets.
Her room is pure white with a few accents of purple.
As stated in the book, her room would look terrible if it were ALL purple!
Attain dirty blond hair and sea-blue eyes.
If you don't have these, try getting contacts and dying your hair.
If you don't prefer dying your hair, or getting contacts, then you can start your own trend and be a Kristen with your own look.
If you still want to dye your hair but can't afford it, try squeezing lemon juice in a cup and putting it in your hair.
Let it soak in and then wash it out after about 10 minutes.
After you dry and brush your hair, it should be a little lighter.
Look rich.
Kristen may be poor, but she definitely throws people off.
She wears designer make-up and always looks like she came from a model shoot.
She wears red lipstick so people notice her eyes more.
If you don't have red lipstick and don't feel like buying any, then you may try to get a dark pink.
Kristen has long eyelashes, and to keep from looking like an LBR, she wears mascara.
Kristen is extremely sporty ! She's the captain of her soccer team.
Be involved in one of the more tomboyish sports.
If you're not the captain, at least be a good player!
Kristen doesn't wear too much make-up since she is so sporty, just the light and simple bronzer, concealer/foundation, lip gloss (a must !), mascara, and sometimes eyeshadow.
She also uses a lot of toner.
Make your own trends.
Kristen is an only child and has very strict parents that make her go to school instead of the mall, but that doesn't stop her.
Use ties as belts, jeans as beachy shorts, and earrings as pins.
Trust me, no one will ever notice!
Alicia always wear Ralph Lauren, is as gorgeous as a model, and is half-Spanish, half-white.
She has long, straight black hair with natural highlights and big, bright chocolate-brown eyes.
She has a gorgeous natural tan all year-round!
If you don't have these features, you are better off being someone else, because you cannot get this look out of a spray tan and a can of hair dye.
Try to keep it natural.
Be picky.
Alicia is always getting asked out and asked to go to dances, but she turns almost all of them down because she has way too much fun with her best friends (the PC!)
You should also only settle for the best, and try to boost your popularity, but not to often.
If a really hawt guy asks you out, then say yes and dump him a week later.
Don't dump him too early or you'll be seen as a slut.
If your parents are strict, this is not the girl for you.
Her dad is a famous celebrity lawyer who can get her everything and anything she wants, and her mom was a Spanish model who gives her everything!
Alicia is known to be even more beautiful than Massie, who is already too gorgeous for words ! Alicia is the only child who lives in a giant mansion like Massie's.
However, Alicia is known to be a tiny bit richer than Massie.
Alicia wears a lot of make-up.
Always wear lipgloss.
It is usually a light pink, nude/peachy-cream, or clear color.
She always wears mascara to make her eyes pop.
Go exotic, but still cool.
She also always wears eyeliner, blush, and sometimes eyeshadow.
Try light blue eyeliner.
Keep it to a minimum.
Be sneaky.
Alicia is a total gossip queen and always has the best gossip about anyone.
That sneak!
The secret is simply talking to people, or doing something funny in class.
You learn a lot more.
Be kind of nice, but mean at the same time ! Meaning really think about the right time to be nice, and the right time to be sassy.
Be coy and nice, but not too nice, to your crush.
Let him know that you prefer him over everyone else.
Get a nice tan, but it should be natural ! If your skin color is very, very light, get a spray tan.
Grow out your hair.
Dylan has long, red, and fabulous wavy hair.
She has emerald-green eyes.
If you don't have these features, try extensions.
They get pricey, but the pricier they are, the longer they last.
Contacts won't be a breeze because stores rarely have shiny emerald contacts, but you can try a tealish-blue.
Wear skirts to show off your long legs.
Dylan is very tall, a whole head taller than Massie, so she naturally has long legs.
Dylan is obsessed with her weight [It is a little unclear of Dylan's weight.
In the first half of the series, Dylan was said to be freakishly skinny, just obsessed with weight gain (anorexic much?
Don't go anorexic or bulimic), but in the last half of the series, and in the prequel, Dylan is actually a little fat.].
Be ready to be spoiled.
Dylan has a famous mother, the host of the talk show "The Daily Grind."
She gets whatever she wants and her make-up is gorgeous.
She has access to her mom's celebrity wardrobe and stylists!
Her mom's H&M (Hair and Make-up, NAWT H&M the store!)
stylist usually does her H&M for her, so she always looks great!
Her favorite color is reddish-pink.
She usually wears quite a bit of make-up, but still maintains that fresh, rosy, natural, glowy look!
She usually wears green or rose-pink eye shadow to bring out her eyes/hair and either light red lipstick or light pink/clear gloss.
She wears light orange blush, and to keep the burst of color going, she wears pitch black eyeliner.
Don't worry, it doesn't look gothic at all!
Get long, blond bowl-cut bangs.
Claire is always trying to grow them out, but never does.
You also need sky blue eyes, and don't be afraid to stand up for yourself!.
You should usually just copy the PC.
You should not be totally desperate, but you can be an LBR at times.
You may be the last in command, but be extremely nice.
She is the only one who will not wear make-up, and she is also the only one who will eat candy.
Try to imitate these qualities as well.
Claire is unfashionable.
Shop at Gap, Target, TJ Maxx, Macy's, and Walmart.
She arrived at Massie's guesthouse in a 2-seasons-ago pair of Gap OVERALLS!
As the series progresses, however, Claire gets TONS of hand-me-downs from Massie, so she gets a bit more fashionable.
Buy at least one pair of Keds.
Claire always wears them.
Make friends with a unique girl who isn't afraid to be herself (Layne), and be romantic (Cam !).