yet.Understand how Taekwondo competitions are categorized.
Taekwondo competitions are classified into eight weight categories in both the male and female divisions.
Valid techniques for scoring points in the competition include a variety of punching and kicking techniques.
With punching, one can only strike the trunk; with kicking, one can target both trunk and face.
Note that striking certain parts of the body and face are forbidden.
Familiarize yourself with the differences among the four advanced attack methods.
They are as follows:
Direct attack : A direct attack involves a kick directly aimed at the proper bodily targets of your opponent.
Indirect attack : An indirect attack misleads an opponent's attack by avoiding the direction of his movement and therefore an immediate attack against you.
Counterattack : A counterattack is a reverse attack in advance of the opponent's.
Continuous attack : A continuous attack utilizes a variety of kicks or combinations of kicks and punches.
Practice and master the four types of direct attack.
There are four types of direct attacks according to the distance and stance of the opponent.
The four direct attack styles are: in-place attack, incline attack, forward attack, and close-up attack.
Their performance involves the following:
In-place attack
In-place attack: The opponent is close, which makes it easy to attack with a kick.
Incline attack
Incline attack: The distance of the opponent is slightly beyond reach.
Therefore, the competitor must shift his or her body forward for easy attack.
Forward attack
Forward attack: The opponent is further away.
The competitor must slide his or her front foot or back foot in as he or she shifts the body weight forward to attack.
Close-up attack
Close-up attack: The opponents are too close to each other.
The competitor must move back to create space for easy attack.
Practice and master the three types of indirect attack.
These are: feinting, avoiding or blocking, and footwork.
These consist of the following:
Feinting
Feinting: Make an opening body motion with feint and then attack according to the opponent s reaction.
Avoiding or blocking
Avoiding or blocking: Avoid or block the opponent's attack and follow with the counterattack.
Footwork
Footwork: Keep moving forward and backward, left and right.
As you are doing so, find the right opportunities to attack.
Practice and master two types of counterattacks.
These are the direct counterattack and the indirect counterattack.
These consist of the following:
Direct counterattack: Counter the opponent s attack from where you are.
Quick reaction and courage are fundamental.
Indirect counterattack: Move against the opponent's attack or block the opponent s attack and deliver a counterattack immediately.
Striking the front with the left leg
Striking the face with the right leg
Double attack: Use the left leg to kick the trunk.
Immediately after, use the right leg to strike the face.
Trunk and face attack: According to how you are balanced, kick the trunk and continue with the same leg to the face, or use the alternative leg to kick the trunk or the face.
Punching and kicking: In a closed stance, attack with a punch to the trunk, followed by a special kick to the trunk or face.
When executing a punch, your hand and arm must come from below.
A punch
Combination kicks: A combination kick is comprised of a variety of techniques, such as a front kick together with a roundhouse kick or back kick.
Another variation would be a side kick along with one or more ace kicks.
Choose your combinations in accordance with your swinging.
There are many possible combinations.
The examples mentioned here are just a few.
Kick combination:
2.
A combination of front kick with...
... roundhouse kick...
...and side kick.