area.Get a high quality adjustable bench.
An adjustable bench will replace the need for an incline bench, a flat bench, and a decline bench.
One adjustable bench will save you hundreds of dollars compared to buying all three single benches.
An adjustable bench is highly versatile and can be used in almost any exercise.
Dumbbells and free weights.
Pick up a set or two of dumbbells.
Dumbbells have long been hailed as the better choice among hypertrophy training equipment.
They are much smaller than large home gym machines and much cheaper.
The beauty of free weights is you can start off with 1 or 2 sets and as you become stronger you can purchase heavier weights.
Dumbbells are extremely versatile as well.
Almost every exercise incorporates the use of weights.
If you are already quite strong you should get the standard Olympic dumbbells, which weigh about 12lb (unloaded) and can be loaded with up to 200lbs each.
Stability ball
Get a burst-resistant stability ball.
These balls are the best thing in fitness these days.
They are excellent for abdominal work because they support the spine and isolate the stomach muscles.
A stability ball works the abs more than a crunch or sit-up could ever dream of.
These balls are highly versatile.
The ball may even take the place of a bench in some exercises.
However, because of their highly unstable nature, people seeking muscular strength and CNS improvements, should just train on a stable ground.
Try a resistance exercise band.
They can be used to add extra resistance during controlled exercises using your arms or legs.
Invest in an Olympic bar with bumper plates if you wish to increase your strength.
These plates are more durable compared to ordinary plates as they're rubber coated and allow to be dropped on the floor.
When doing movements such as squats, it's highly important to be able to "dump" the bar, if failing in the squat.
Also, barbells allow mini increments in weight used from 100GMS-1KG.
This is highly useful for the higher level lifters who are plateauing.
Will you use it?
Choose a cardio machine that you will actually use.
Treadmills, exercise bikes and elliptical machines are all popular choices, however you should consider whether you will actually use it.
Consider buying a second-hand machine from someone who has realized they will not use it.