money!Go through your address book, day planner, or other contact information for your current friends and contacts.
Make connection with them just to talk.
The subject of your conversation isn't really important at this point.
Just staying in touch works wonders and will serve as the foundation for the next steps.
Throw a party.
Either a birthday party or just a friendly get together.
Ask all of your close friends to come and tell them that they can bring a guest.
Speak with everyone at the party and get phone numbers and contact information from those you do not know and that you share common interests with.
Join an Internet message board or community that focuses on one of your interests (such as wikiHow ;) ).
Post on the topic and share your knowledge.
If someone on the message board has similar interests or can teach you something, then send them an email or a private message and get to know them.
Attend weddings, funerals and parties that you are invited to.
Showing that you care about the people in your network, even if you just pop in and say hi, will cause those that are in your 'network' to return the same courtesy.
And, you could meet other people there too.
Send a weekly email to some of your most valued contacts just to touch base.
Ask how they are doing, how their family is, how their job is going.
Be sincere!
Consider volunteering and joining a cause that you believe in.
Perhaps a cancer or AIDS walk or fundraiser.
Or perhaps a political campaign for a candidate that you share political views with.
Attend conferences concerning the topics you are interested in.
Whether they are about technology, skiing or scrapbooking, you will meet new people that share similar interests.
Start your own group.
This can be a bit of a daunting task, but if you start your own group, whether an internet bulletin board group or an actual meet and greet group, people will be coming to you instead of you looking for them.
This is a great way to meet new contacts and friends.