left.Contact the Music Department at the church where you will be getting married.
The Music Director usually has a list of music specifically tailored for weddings that you can choose from.
If you are looking at the list and have no idea what these songs sound like, ask to meet with the organist to hear them played.
Consider what each piece brings to the ceremony.
All signs should point to your relationship with God as individuals now becoming a couple.
If you have a favorite pop song that you want done, have it done at the reception.
Prelude (-5 pieces, vocal or instrumental to be played while guests arrive).
Your prelude should not be any longer than half an hour, which is usually about 5 or 6 songs.
Piece for the Mothers.
This is a piece played right before the processional and, although it does not have to be anything special, it is nice to let Mom know when she walks down the aisle that you appreciate her.
Processional.
Sometimes, you will want two processionals: one for the wedding party and one for the Bride.
It actually works better for the organist if you can choose a piece that gets louder and more festive as the piece continues so that the big finish is when the bride is walking down the aisle.
It builds continuity for your ceremony.
Keep in mind that any hymns that you sing should be pointing to the reason that you are there: The love of God for his people.
Responsorial Psalm.
Psalms should be sung whenever possible.
The cantor for your wedding will want to have plenty of time to prepare the psalm, so don't put off choosing your readings.
Choose a Psalm from the wedding planning book you get from the parish when you register to have your wedding.
Also, be sure to tell the musicians whether you have chosen to have two readings and a Gospel or just one reading, so they know when to start the Gospel Acclamation.
Gospel Acclamation and Mass Parts.
It is usually nice to use Mass parts that the people attending your wedding will be familiar with.
If your family is not Catholic, be sure that your cantor knows to sing out.
If you family is Catholic, but is from another parish or another city, be sure that the musicians help you choose something that they will know, so they can participate fully in the Mass.
Unity Candle.
The Unity Candle is not included in the Rite of Marriage in the Catholic Church.
If this is a symbol that you would like to utilize on your special day, consider doing it at the Reception.
Have the parents come in and light their candles, and when the Bride and Groom enter, they can kick off the festivities with lighting their Unity Candle on the Head table.
If your parish does permit the Unity Candle to be used, be aware that there is never enough time for a whole song to be done.
You will want to have the organist pick something short and lovely to play while you light the candle and get back to your places.
Offertory.
This should be some sort of song of praise.
It can be vocal, instrumental, or even a hymn.
Again, consider choosing music that points up God's part in your marriage.
Communion.
This is the consummation of the Sacrifice of the Mass and it is the actual high point of your Catholic Wedding.
Not only are you two united by the vows you exchanged, but also in the Body and Blood of Christ.
As such, your Communion Music should be completely focused on the Eucharist.
Choose a song that talks about the Eucharist and why it is important in your life as an individual and as a couple.
Depending on how many of your guests are Catholic and will be receiving Communion, you could need a lot of music.
Have the organist prepared to play a meditative piece, if you run out of music.
Consider your guest list and then decide accordingly.
Meditation.
Usually, this is the time when the bride carries her flowers to a statue of Mary and dedicates her newly married life to Mary, the Mother of God.
That is why the "Ave Maria" is most often done at this point.
The "Ave Maria" is the prayer "Hail Mary" in Latin and set to music.
If your parish does not allow the devotional practice of consecrating your marriage to the protection of Our Lady, and you still want this song done, consider it for the prelude.
Recessional.
This is the big finish.
Usually, the recessional is a big, organ intensive piece played with all the stops out to mirror the joy in your hearts as you first walk down the aisle as Mr. and Mrs. Newlywed.