procedures.What's the problem : try to determine why you are going to counseling.
"Having marital problems that are making me depressed," "feeling sad or depressed," "having panic attacks," "feeling anxious a lot," "just not feeling myself," "having family problems that are causing anxiety," "having trouble with alcohol," and so on.
Determine how you will pay.
Insurance or Private Pay: This is a big decision for several reasons.
Insurance coverage is not guarenteed, you will usually have to pay some portion of the fee, and personal information about you and your illness will be sent to the insurance company.
This information may stay on your medical record for years, establish a basis for pre-existing conditions by future insurance companies and, depending on your diagnosis, prevent you from being employed by law enforcement agencies or the military.
If you choose to use insurance, call the customer service 800# on the back of your card and ask for the names of three outpatient mental health counselors in your zip code (you're probably more likely to keep your appointments if you live close to their office).
If you pay privately, try to negotiate a fee with the counselor, but, first determine how much you would be willing to pay per session.
If you pay privately, you're not limited to the therapists in your insurance plan.
Visit a referral service, like www.psychologytoday.com; it will provide with some therapists sorted by zip code, sex, issue, and so on.
It will also list other information about each therapist in the network.
Ask Questions : Prepare a list of questions to ask each counselor.
Consider the following examples: "What percentage of your clients come in for [marital] therapy?"
(fill in marital therapy with your problem); "What approach do you take to counseling?"
"How many sessions do people usually spend in therapy?"
"Do you have a license to practice therapy?"
"Do you bill my insurance company?"
"Can you call my insurance company for me to find out my benefits?"
Research : Now that you have information about each therapist, do some more research.
For example, if the prospective therapist said that they use "Imago" or "Gottman" therapy (for marital problems), find out what that means.
If they have an "LPC" license, find out what that is. You can visit www.psychologytoday.com or do a Google search for more information.
Try to arrange a free consultation.
This is strongly recommended since you'll be able to see the counselor's office as well as have the direct experience of meeting with that person and his or her assistants.
How you feel when you leave the office will probably be the most important factor in deciding whether or not to continue with this particular person.