spaceSelect a cellular carrier that is currently carrying Android phones.
Some carriers may have a carrier-specific version of Android, which could ultimately impact your decision.
Decide between a multi-touch display, a traditional physical QWERTY keyboard, or a hybrid; this will greatly narrow down your search.
Choosing a phone with the technology you require is key.
For example, if you would like to take high quality pictures, a device with a high mega-pixel camera is ideal.
Likewise, if you d like to use specific third-party peripherals, Bluetooth technology or integrated ports may be necessary.
Consider the memory capacity.
Those that want to store music, videos, photos, and other files on their device will require higher internal memory storage or the ability to add expandable memory storage.
Consider the CPU (or processor) that the phone runs on.
This is very important, as a higher CPU operating frequency allows you to do heavier multitasking and assures quicker global phone responsiveness and operation.
A 1GHz processor should be able to handle any stress you throw at it; aim for a CPU that clocks at no less than 720MHz for the best Android experience.
Pick a device that supports what most carriers refer to as multitasking . This refers to the ability to use voice and data simultaneously.
This is necessary to take advantage of the Android operating system s full capabilities.
Select a phone that meets your requirements in terms of weight and size.
Android devices come in various sizes, ranging from tall, slender touch screens, to more compact designs.
Selecting a device with a larger display will sacrifice portability and vise versa.
Compare the battery talk time and standby stats.
For those that are using their device for work or other situations where a long lasting battery is key, this will be a major consideration when comparing devices.
Contact your selected carrier and inquire about whether or not the device you are considering will receive future Android updates.
Google is constantly updating the Android operating system, making past versions obsolete.
It is best to select a recently launched phone that is guaranteed to receive future updates for at least the term of your contract.
Utilize the Compare function provided on most carriers websites to compare features for a number of selected Android devices.
Read customer and professional reviews to get a better idea of the potential problems with any given Android phone you are considering.