allergies.Determine the size of the amp you will need.
Amps are rated by wattage rather than physical size (although high-wattage amps do tend to be physically larger).
Lower wattage tube amplifiers will tend to create harmonic distortion at lower volumes, which is preferable in practice, studio, and miked stage performance.
Higher wattage tube amplifiers will distort at higher volumes--which require more creative mixing for live situations.
Further, perceived volume for amp wattage is at/10 the wattage and 1/2 the volume.
For example, a 10 watt amplifier scientifically half as loud as a 100 watt amp, although the human ear doesn't percieve it this way.
The wattage and cost of an amp are rarely related, aswatt amps can be two, three, or even ten times the cost of a 100 watt amp.
The sound quality experienced from an amplifier can be determined by many things, including (but not limited to) :
the preamp tubes used
power amp tubes used
the wood material used for the speaker cabinet
the type of speaker cones
the resistance of the speakers
the guitar used
the cables used
the effects used
the pickups in the guitar
and even the fingers of the player.
There are many different brands of amplifiers that range in quality and cost.
Popular brands include: Fender, Marshall, Peavey, and Mesa-Boogie.
Combo (combination) amps combine the amplifier electronics with one or more speakers in a one-piece package.
They are the alternative to "heads," which contain only the electronics, and are attached to separate speaker packages (known as "cabinets" or "cabs") Since it is a one-piece unit, the combo design is generally preferred for smaller, lower-wattage amps.
The following are the most common varieties of combo amp:
Marshall MS-- a tiny micro amp with nothing close to real Marshall tone
Micro amps : 1-10 watts.
These are tiny, ultra-portable amps which are useful for practice on the go (or when others are trying to sleep).
They don't pack enough volume to be used in most "jam" situations (where you must be heard above other musicians).
As a rule, their sound quality tends to be poor (when compared to larger amps) due to low output power and lower quality circuitry and are not adequate for professional performances.
The Marshall MS-2 is an example of a super-portable (1 watt) micro amp which has received good reviews for a solid state amp of this size.
Roland Cube- a popular practice amp
Practice amps : 10-30 watts.
Practice amps are also suited for the bedroom/living room environment, although the loudest of them may be used for small gigs (performances), especially if a microphone is used to run them through the venue's PA system.
As with micro amps, practice amps tend to compare unfavorably to larger units in terms of sound quality, unless the practice amp is a good quality tube amp.
Popular practice tube amps that sound as good or better than many larger amps include, Fender Champ, Epiphone Valve Junior and the Fender Blues Jr. As a general rule, the best practice amps have at least a 10 inch speaker.
This is the smallest speaker size which is generally considered a "real speaker."
If you don't have a 10 inch (or larger) speaker, don't try to use the amp outside the bedroom.
Expensive quality amplifiers with at least 30 watts root mean squared output with better fidelity and less signal distortions are best.
Cratex12 combo amp
Full-size 1x12 combos : With 50 or more watts of power and at least one 12 inch speaker, the 1x12 amp offers the smallest package which is considered suitable as a stand-alone amplifier for small gigs.
(Keep in mind that you can mic smaller amps though) In better models, sound quality begins to approach levels acceptable to professional musicians.
Quality is always important, but perhaps even more so in the case of the 1x12 combo - with a good one, you'll prove the doubters wrong, but with one of the many duds, you won't be taken seriously.
The 1x12 is not a big amp, and if you want to bring it to a serious audition or gig without enduring a storm of eye-rolling and chuckling, it had better stand out from the crowd.
Expensive quality amplifiers with at least 50 watt output with better fidelity and less signal distortions are best for stage and recordings.
A Fender bandmaster amplifier with 50 watts output made in the 1960s perhaps a standard was a decent professional quality amplifier.
Cratex12 combo amp
2x12 combos are similiar to 1x12 combos, but they add a second 12 inch speaker.
The 2x12 design is considerably heavier and bulkier than the 1x12, but it is still a favorite choice of working musicians for performances at small to medium-sized venues.
The addition of a second speaker allows for certain stereo effects, and two speakers simply move more air than one (allowing more "presence" in your sound).
The 2x12 amp is small enough to be used in the living room, light enough to be lugged around by someone without major back problems, and yet formidable enough to be taken seriously at rehearsals, auditions, and even on stage.
Fifty watts output or more with at least two twelve inch speakers are best for practice, performance and recording.
If you have to buy a single amp for practice, rehearsals, and club gigs, a 2x12 is a good choice.
You'll occasionally slip and set the volume knob a bit too high (annihilating your unfortunate neighbors), and you'll be tempted to gripe about lugging 50-80 pounds worth of amp all over the place, but it will all be worthwhile when you hear the tone you can get from a quality model.
Know that there are other types of combos, but these are the mainstays.
Having discussed them, we are ready to move on to heads and stacks.
Soldano head - a high-end amplifier
A head is an amplifier without speakers.
A cabinet ("cab") is a stand-alone speaker enclosure, which can be connected to a head.
A stack is a head and a set of cabinets connected together, ready for use.
Stacks are generally preferred for gigs rather than practice, although there's no rule against having a enormous stack in your living room - if your family allows it.
Fair warning: in most cases, they won't.
Stacks are physically bulky, very heavy, and devastatingly LOUD.
These are the tools of musicians who either play arenas and stadiums on a regular basis - or at least dream of doing so.
Marshall half stack - a perennial favorite
Heads are all roughly the same size physically, but they come in a variety of wattages.
"Small" heads pack 18-50 watts.
Full-power heads are generally 100 watts or more.
There are also super heads, boasting a tinnitus-inducing 200-400 watts of power.
For performances at small to medium-size venues, a small head is more than enough.
The smaller heads are often connected to a single 4x12 cabinet (which contains four 12 inch speakers, as the name suggests).
This type of setup is known as a "half stack," and it is a favorite of working musicians.
Before buying a half stack, keep in mind they are too large and too loud for most bars or venues with a small stage (most of the gigs you'll actually play), they don't fit in any vehicle smaller than a van or pickup, your bandmates will not help you haul it up on stage, and a half stack WILL cause permanent hearing damage if you don't use earplugs.
The half stack offers plenty of volume, the presence of four speakers.
Use the heads (amplifier) that the professionals use.
The full stack is the dream of many a guitarist (but will be frowned upon by your soundman and everyone on stage with you).
This is usually a 100 watt head connected to two 4x12 cabinets, although other wattages are sometimes employed.
The cabinets are stacked vertically (one on top of the other), giving the setup its distinctive name.
A full stack is as tall as a grown man, making for quite an impressive sight.
The sound is equally impressive.
If you set one of these up in your living room and play it to its full capabilities, you will be evicted from the neighborhood (unless you are an isolated hermit).
A full stack is too large for all but the very largest of venues, and even then your soundman will be mic'ing you so you'll never actually have a use for a full stack.
Most working pros will use two half stacks in stereo rather than bringing a full stack on the road.
Guitarists who are truly sadistic (in a sonic sense), such as some heavy metal players, may run one of the 200-400 watt super heads through a full stack.
With any full stack (and especially the "hot rod" setups), you will require ear protection to play at higher volumes without sustaining potentially serious ear damage.
Most live shows you see that use full stacks are doing it as a stage trick.
Typically only one cabinet has speakers in it and the rest are up there for show.
Motley Crue used to make fake speaker grille frames out of black cloth and 2x4s to make it look like the stage was full of amp stacks.
Most pros currently use 2x12 or half stacks because the sound is easier to control.
If you really want a full stack, by all means go buy one, but you'll almost never get to use it unless you are doing a stadium tour.
They are just too big to be practical.
Many musicians use "racks," usually a reinforced metal box with removable panels on the front and back.
The front side of the rack, when open, has two vertical rows of threaded screw holes on the sides.
Rack sizes have been standardized for years -- they are made to fit ALL rack-mountable units, including recording gear, PA amplifiers, vocal processors, chromatic tuners, DJ gear, etc. in addition to guitar amps.
Rack-mounted products have a sturdy metal face plate strong enough to support the entire product; they are a standard width, a standard maximum depth, and are usually much shorter than they are tall or deep.
The face plate is wider than the rest of the unit and has screw holes on each corner, spaced to line up with the screw holes on the front of any rack.
To attach gear to the rack, lay your rack on its backside, place the unit in the rack so that the unit dangles down into the rack, its entire weight supported by the face plate, line it up with the screw holes, and fasten it at each corner with properly-sized screws.
The smallest rack products are the shortest, covering only two screw holes -- these are said to take up "one rack space."
A larger product that covers up four screw holes on your rack takes up "two rack spaces," and so on.
To figure out how many spaces a rack has, count the screw holes on one side and divide it by two.
A rack-mounted guitar amplifier rig is similar to heads in that they have separate amplifier components that are plugged into external speaker cabinets.
But nearly all rack-mounted amplifiers are broken down into two further categories -- the pre-amp and the power amp.
Both heads and combos have these separate components as well -- racks merely separate them out into two units.
Most major amplifier manufacturers, including Marshall, Carvin, Mesa-Boogie, and Peavey make rack-mountable amp rigs.
The Pre-Amp shapes the signal entering your amplifier into a tone.
In its basic form, a pre-amp defines the levels of treble, bass, and middle in your tone.
However, functions such as gain, presence, and contour have become standard features of modern guitar amplifiers, and rack-mountable pre-amps usually have many more functions indeed -- they are essentially effects processors.
Footpedal multi-effects processors are also pre-amps.
Plug your guitar into the pre-amp.
Most rack pre-amps only take up one rack space.
The Power Amp is connected to the pre-amp by a speaker cable.
It takes the signal the pre-amp shaped and gives it volume.
Like heads, power amps are available in different sizes, from a minimum of 50 watts to monster 200-400W power amps.
100W or larger power amps will take up two rack spaces.
The power amp plugs into the speaker cab like on a head.
However, as many power amps as you want can be connected in a daisy chain or to different pre-amp outputs to boost the power of the signal, as well as possibly blend the tonal influences of two different power amps.
Disadvantages of Rack Rigs.
As you can probably tell, racks are frequently very complicated rigs.
A novice guitarist may find them perplexing.
They are also heavier and bulkier than heads -- and add onto that the bulk and heft of the rack itself.
Since you need to buy multiple products and accessories, the price for a new rack rig can be (but isn't always) higher than that of a head.
Advantages of Rack Rigs.
On the other hand, using a rack allows you to mix and match products by different manufacturers and find a tone that is distinctly "yours," not the boutique design concept of some engineer at Marshall or Fender.
And if you have a reasonably good mind for engineering or basic spatial sequencing (i.e. lining things up in order), even complicated digital pre-amps can be surprisingly user-friendly, providing a more easy-to-understand interface than a row of inscrutable knobs on the front of a head or combo.
If you are already a DJ, vocalist, or recording artist, or want to become any one of these, many valuable products are availble that can be mounted right on the same rack with your amplifier.
Also, big racks frequently have caster wheels, making them very easy to roll around, and having a rack can also simplify pre-gig or -practise setup.
Instead of having to plug in all your components from scratch, your components can already be plugged in and ready to go as soon as you wheel your rack onto the stage or into the studio and remove the front and back panels.
A rack-mountable power conditioner (essentially a rack-mounted power strip with surge protection) can be invaluable to this end as most rack units are independently powered -- simply plug all your products into the conditioner, then whenever you arrive at a gig or practice, plug in the one master power cable from the conditioner, plug in your speaker cab and guitar, switch everything on, and you're ready to rock.
If you have pedals, microphones, etc, you can usually fit them into the rack as well, making it your all-purpose, highly-portable gig box (provided that it's on wheels).
Finally, racks are uncommon, and will attract attention.
People will be impressed if you wheel a rack rig into rehearsal or performance, but beware -- they will expect you to be a seasoned guitarist, or at least be able to effectively USE your rack.
Don't bring your rack anywhere unless you know how to get those pre-amps and processors to do exactly what you want them to do.
Such professionals asU2's The Edge and Nirvana's Kurt Cobain have favored rack rigs.
In order to get the most from a guitar amplifier, you need to understand how different types of amps suit different styles of music.
For the most part, amps are not "one size fits all."
Although there are all sorts of amps, they can be classified in two broad categories - "vintage" and "high gain."
Tone Wars
Fender Twin Reverb - a quintessential vintage amp
Vintage amps produce (or reproduce) the classic sounds of early amplifiers.
For the jazz, blues, or blues-rock guitarist, the vintage sound is still widely considered the best tone available.
Vintage amps can be actual antiques, or they can be modern amps that replicate the sound of antique amps.
The sound of Fender, Vox, Marshall, and similar amplifiers from the 50's, 60's and early 70's is the foundation of the vintage tone.
When you think "vintage," you think Hendrix, Led Zeppelin, Eric Clapton, Deep Purple, etc. These are the sounds that started it all.
Randall Warhead - a contemporary "gain monster"
High-gain amps produce a sound with greater distortion than that of vintage amps.
Although there is some debate about the evolution of high-gain amps, many believe that a large part of their history is owed to Eddie Van Halen.
Van Halen actually knew very little about electronics (he has admitted that is why his guitar was so oddly assembled), and only got his high gain tone by maxing out all the knobs on his amp, then brought the volume under control with a variac, which brought down the amps voltage.
With his landmark "Eruption" solo in, Van Halen introduced the roaring, face-melting sound of an amp pushed into complete power tube saturation.
Amp makers trying to emulated that sound at lower volumes then started adding extra gain stages to the preamps of their amp designs, to allow for higher gain tone at controlled volumes.
As heavy metal evolved, so did the need for higher gain amps.
For hard rock and heavy metal music from the early 80's and beyond, vintage amps are overshadowed by their modern high-gain counterparts.
If you want to play jazz, blues, blues-rock (in the style of Led Zeppelin) or very early heavy metal (in the style of Black Sabbath), a lower gain tube amp may be your best choice.
If you want to play hard rock,'s metal, and "shred" guitar (in the style of the countless 80's "guitar heroes"), you will probably want to go with a high-gain model.
Note that many newer amps can provide both high-gain and vintage sounds, although some purists feel that the only vintage amps worth playing are the actual antique amplifiers themselves.
"Amp modeling" technology (which allows one amp to simulate the sound of many different amps) is a relatively recent development which has both fans and critics.
If you don't plan to specialize exclusively in vintage-style music, a modeling amp can be very useful, although if you're a purist, nothing beats walking in with a real Fender Twin Reverb, an ancient Marshall "Plexi" head, or something similar.
A vacuum tube - the heart of great amp tone
In the vintage days, all amplifiers used vacuum tubes to accomplish the actual amplification.
Nowadays, many amps use transistors instead, sparking a long-standing debate about which is better.
The consensus is that for almost all types of music, the sound of tubes is noticeably superior.
However, tubes have several drawbacks:
Tubes can be expensive, depending the tubes used.
Expect to replace them afteror more years of use, depending on their quality and how loud/often they are used.
Tubes are somewhat unreliable.
They can and do go out at random times, crippling the amp.
This can be alleviated by using good quality tubes.
Tubes (and the associated design factors) add considerable weight to the amplifier.
Back problems caused by skinny guitar players lugging around bigx12 tube combos are an insurance company's nightmare.
Tube amps are, generally speaking, more pricey than solid-state amps.
Tubes are better with clearer sound in quality circuit; they are still being sold, and most probably still use these.
You will almost certainly pay more for this vintage technology than you will pay for modern solid-state (transistor) electronics.
Some transistor amplifiers can cost five to seven times less per watt.
Changing from tube to transistor circuit increase output power by about%; transistor circuits are more difficult to get less signal distortion from.
There are tube amps, however, like the Fender Blues Jr., that go for roughly $300; the Fender Hot Rod Deluxe (which is an extremely loud, 40 Watt, 1x12 amp), goes for about $550-$600.
A Vox AC-30 2x12" reissue, on the other hand, will set you back no less than $1200; and the coveted Marshall tube driven head + half stack can be well over $2000.
If you can afford a tube amp, you should strongly consider buying one.
In almost all cases, the sound is noticeably better.
One possible exception to this is for heavy metal players.
Many metal guitarists find that the harsher sound of transistors suits their style of music.
Given the reliability, weight, and price advantages of solid-state amps, even the professional-level heavy metal guitarist may not require a tube amp.
Pantera's Darrell Abbott used solid-state amps, as do many other notable heavy metal musicians.
Your amp will have two different kinds of tubes -- pre-amp tubes and power-amp tubes (a few combos and heads mix and match between tube and solid-state pre-amps and power amps).
Many modern guitarists have forgotten that the original rock 'n' roll "crunch" or distortion was created when guitarists like Pete Townsend turned their amps' volume up toor 8, causing the power tubes to overdrive.
A pre-amp parameter called "Gain" has been added to most amps to simulate that overdriven distortion.
But unless you're into the tinny thrash-metal sound, no artificial gain setting can compare to the sweet, distorted tone of overdriven power tubes turned up to 7.
The problem is, most guitarists, especially new ones, go whole hog for a 100W amp, which cannot be turned up to 7 or 8 in a small club without blowing the doors off.
They turn their amps down to four or five, turn the gain up to ten, and never know what they are missing that they could get from a 30W amp turned to 7.
Angus Young of AC/DC plays live with both a 100W tube head turned up to 6 for his rhythm parts, and a 50W tube head cranked up to 10 for comparable volume but extra overdrive that he switched to for his solos.