allergies.Take everything out of the tack room.
You can leave saddles on hitching posts or stools with the bridles on top.
Just set grooming buckets on the ground.
Throw spare stirrup leathers and spurs in boxes.
Just make sure the room is completely empty.
Hang, rugs, saddlecloths and boots out to air in a breeze if possible.
Tip everything out of storage boxes making sure any dust, dirt and hair also comes out.
Fill plastic storage boxes with warm water and some mild soap.
Sweep cardboard boxes out.
If there is any mold on them, replace them.
Put any suitable small items in the water to soak.
This can include grooming kits, stirrups, spurs and small pieces of synthetic tack.
Shake/wipe the excess water off and leave everything to dry in the sun.
Sweep.
This will remove the dirt on the floor and will make it look much better.
If the floor is really gross, use a floor cleaner to get the remaining gunk off.
Dust.
Dust like you have never dusted before.
Clean shelves, corners, saddle racks -- anything you can find.
Hoover the rafters, walls and cobwebs.
When you are done, the tack room will really look clean.
Now for the bathroom (if the tack room has one).
Chances are, the toilets and sinks are filthy.
Clean them out with bathroom cleaner, and mop the floor.
Replace or fix anything that is broken.
If the toilet seat is cracked, replace it.
Make sure the saddle racks are sturdy.
Fix or replace broken shelves.
Re-label any racks or shelves if the old tags aren t clear.
Re-pack the storage boxes.
Re-label things if they aren t clear and make sure they are dry.
Try to have a box, bag or bucket to store all small items, with the exception of girths, reins and stirrup leathers, which are best hung up.
Make sure that bottles are upright.
Bring the storage boxes back in and put them away.
Put the most commonly used items, like grooming kits, within easy reach, and the less frequently used items, like clippers, out of the way.
Set up the saddle racks.
Ideally, they should be in a row along the wall.
If you teach riding lessons and have lots of saddles, consider using racks going up the wall.
The bridles should correspond to the location of the saddle.
Wipe the tack with a damp cloth and cover saddle with a breathable cover or clean saddlecloth.
Bring in the tack and rugs.
Order tack by the horse it s used on rather than type and keep the grooming kit near too.