sick.BlanketMouseNapkinFruitSeedsBerriesVegetablesYogurtWaterResearch Jewish laws, history and customs, and talk to Jews about their religion.
Figure out what you are getting into, and determine why you want to do it.
Be aware that Judaism is a major commitment which will affect every part of your life, will last as long as you live, and will even transfer to your children.
Judaism is based on the commandments (of which there are 613 in total, though many are not applicable today) and the Thirteen principles.
They should be your first step and the foundation of your Jewish faith.
The food is not bad
Speak with your family about your intention to convert.
This can often be a touchy subject among families, so be sure to explain your reasoning and desire to become Jewish.
Make sure that you are comfortable with your decision to leave your former religion, if you had one.
If you are converting because of marriage, speak with your future husband/wife to determine the best course of action, including what denomination you will join.
Not many rabbis will convert people just because of marriage, the potential convert MUST be sincere and want to convert because of spiritual feelings and not just because of marriage.
There are three main branches, all with differing levels of observance and ritual.
Generally speaking, from most to least traditional, these are: (a) Orthodox, (b) Conservative - called 'Reform' or 'Masorti' in Europe, and (c) Reform - called 'Progressive' or 'Liberal' in Europe.
Once you feel that you have sufficient reason to convert, make an appointment with a Rabbi to discuss the process.
Be prepared for the rabbi to try to dissuade you, or turn you away.
Many rabbis consider this part of their job.
The goal is not to prevent honest seekers from converting, it is to test the individual's commitment, and make sure that becoming a Jew is truly what he or she wants.
If you are persistent, show that you know what you're getting into and are still committed to doing it, the rabbi may eventually decide to start you on the path to conversion.
Unlike in many religions, converting to Judaism is not fast or easy.
You will need to spend at least a year - some times two or more - studying (many organizations offer night classes) and living a Jewish life before your conversion is finalized.
Your studies will cover the basics of Jewish history and culture, and you will also receive some instruction in the Hebrew language.
At the end of your studies, you will take a test to determine how much you've learned.
You will also be questioned before a Jewish court (called a Beit Din, consisting of three authorities) about adherence to the Halacha, as part of the conversion proceedings.
If you have passed all these steps, a conversion ceremony will be scheduled.
It will involve a ritual bath (full-body immersion in a Mikveh), and if you're an uncircumcised male, you will also need to be circumcised.
In the cases where the man has already been circumcised, creating a small drop of blood is sufficient.