so.Change one room at a time.
Unless you re just moving into a place, it s hard to simplify an entire house at once.
Focus on one room, and let that be your center of calm.
Use it to inspire you to simplify the next room, and the next.
Then do the same outside!
Start with furniture.
The biggest things in any room are the furniture, so it is always best to begin simplifying a room by looking at the furniture.
The fewer pieces of furniture, the better (within reason, of course).
Think of which furniture can be eliminated without sacrificing comfort and livability.
Go for a few pieces of plain, simple furniture (example of a minimalist coffee table) with solid, subdued colors.
Keep only the essentials.
Whether looking at your furniture or anything else in the room, ask yourself if the item is truly essential.
If you can live without it, get it out.
Try to strip the room down to its essentials you can always add a few choice items beyond the essentials later.
Keep the whole design (house) on paper simple as you can initially with required components and then slowly add decor as desired.
Clear floors.
Except for the furniture, your floors should be completely clear.
Nothing should clutter the floor, nothing should be stacked, nothing should be stored on the floor.
Once you ve gotten your furniture down to the bare essentials, clear everything else on the floor either donate it, trash it, or find a place for it out of sight.
Clear surfaces.
Same thing with all flat surfaces.
Don t have anything on them, except one or two simple decorations (see below).
Donate, trash or find an out-of-sight storage spot for everything else.
It will make everything much, much more minimal-looking.
Clear walls.
Some people hang all kinds of stuff on their walls.
No-can-do in a minimalist home.
Clear your walls except for one or two simple pieces of nice artwork (see below).
Store stuff out of sight.
This has been mentioned in the above tips, but you should store everything you need out of sight, in drawers and cabinets.
Bookshelves can be used to store books or DVDs or CDs, but shouldn t have much else except a few simple decorations (not whole collections of things).
Declutter.
If you are clearing flat surfaces and the floor, and storing stuff in cabinets and drawers, you ll probably want to declutter your storage areas too.
You can do this in a later stage if you want.
Use simple artwork.
To keep a room from being boring, you can put a simple painting, drawing or photo, framed with a subdued, solid color, on each wall if you want.
Leave some walls bare if possible.
Use simple decorations.
As mentioned in the above tips, one or two simple decorations can serve as accents for a minimalist room.
A vase of flowers or a small potted plant are two classic examples.
If the rest of your room has subdued colors, your accents could use a bright color (such as red, or yellow) to draw the eye and give a plain room a splash of energy.
Prefer plain window treatments.
Bare windows, or simple, solid colored curtains, or simple, wooden blinds are good.
Too much ornate stuff around the windows is clutter.
Adopt plain patterns.
Solid colors are best for floor coverings (if you have any), furniture, etc. Complex patterns, such as flowers or checkers, are visual clutter.
Make the most of subdued colors.
You can have a splash of bright color in the room, but most of the room should be more subtle colors - white is classic minimalist, but really any solid colors that don t stress the eyes is good (earth colors come to mind, such as blues, browns, tans, greens).
Edit and eliminate.
When you ve simplified a room, you can probably do more.
Give it a couple of days, then look at everything with a fresh eye.
What can be eliminated?
Stored out of sight?
What s not essential?
You can come back to each room every few months, and sometimes you ll discover things you can simplify even more.
Have a place for everything.
In a minimalist house, it s important that you find a place for everything, and remember where those places are.
Where does your blender go?
Give it a spot, and stick with it.
Aim for logical spots that are close to where the thing is used, to make things more efficient, but the key is to designate a spot.