play.Find a Primary weapon you are comfortable with.
This is, of course, the first step.
If you don't have a good primary weapon you use, how will you ever do good?
First, you have to figure out if you want to use an assault rifle (AR), a Submachine Gun (SMG), a Light Machine Gun (LMG), a Sniper Rifle, or a Riot Shield.
Assault rifles are great in Modern Warfare 2, making them all-around guns at any distance.
When choosing an AR, you must decide between fully automatic, semi-automatic, and three-round burst.
Burst fire is 3 bullet shot for each pull of the trigger.
Semi autmoatic is one shot ever time you pull the trigger.
The only 2 burst fire primary guns are M16 and FAMAS.
The only semi-automatic gun is the FAL.
When choosing a fully automatic weapon, be sure to look at the stats of the gun.
Some of the guns have low power, and some have low accuracy.
Look and see what you prefer.
Submachine Guns are a great choice for rushing and CQB.
The rate of fire is very high, with decent power.
Once again, look at the stats and test out the guns to see which is right for you.
Light Machine Guns are guns that usually have a high magazine capacity.
In Modern Warfare, when looking at the stats, look and see how some may have more ammo, more stopping power, more accuracy, or a higher rate of fire.
LMG's aren't used very often but are great for taking out many enemies without needing to reload.
Sniper Rifles are self explanatory, but I separated them into two categories.
Higher power, and lower recoil.
The Barret.Cal and the Intervention fall into the first category, where you can get a one-shot kill almost always from the stomach and up.
The Intervention has a bit less power than the.50 Cal, but is more accurate.
The.50 Cal is semi-automatic, unlike the bolt-action Intervention.
It also has 10 bullets in a magazine, compared to the Intervention's 5.
The second category is comprised of the WA2000 and the M21 EBR.
The WA2000 is very balanced with low recoil and medium power.
The M21 EBR has very low recoil and lower power.
While the.50 Cal has a very high rate of fire, the recoil makes shooting more than one shot useless.
However, with the WA2000 and the M21, shooting two shots at a time is no problem.
Despite having low power, getting one-shot kills with these guns is not impossible, but the area is smaller.
Mid-chest and up will snag you a One-Shot Kill.
The Riot Shield can work or not work for you.
It's great for absorbing shots while your team mates pick off the enemies.
You can also melee with the shield, but it takes two hits to drop an enemy (unless playing Hardcore modes which means it is one).
Find a Secondary gun.
You have four categories to choose from: Machine Pistols, Handguns, Shotguns, and Launchers.
Machine pistols work well for close to medium range, acting like a slightly downgraded SMG.
Handguns come with the unique ability to quick-draw or pull your secondary weapon out very quickly.
These handguns can be separated into the lower-power Mand USP.45, and the high-power.44 Magnum and Desert Eagle.
The Magnum and Desert Eagle come with high power, but sacrifice magazine size and accuracy, and vice versa.
Shotguns provide high power at the risk of sacrificing range (sometimes you get Medium-Long range kills though).
Launchers provide large amounts of damage with a large radius.
The thumper is a good replacement for the grenade launcher, if you opted for a different primary attachment.
Stinger missiles are probably the best for taking down vehicles.
Javelin can also lock on to vehicles, as well as lock on to areas of the map.
The AT-can lock on, with lower power than the stinger and javelin, but can also be free fired accurately.
The RPG comes with two rockets, and can only be free fired with varying accuracy.
However, the blast radius on these are higher than that of the AT-4.
Equipment.
Equipment are extra tools that will let your perform various tasks.
Frag grenades and semtex grenades can be tossed long distances.
Semtex 'nades can stick to any surface as well as other people, and have a short detonation time, which means they can only be thrown so far before exploding.
Frag grenades (Three second fuse) can be tossed long distances if thrown cold, but they can also be cooked for quicker detonation, and can also ricochet off of surfaces, and roll down hills.
Throwing knifes provide an instant kill and can be thrown long distances.
These allow you to kill in style, but can also be picked up and re-used.
With the blast shield, you can take more explosion damage than you normally would.
This may seem useless, but it CAN safe your life at times.
Tactical Insertions allow you to choose where you respawn next.
This is a very useful tool when defending or attacking in an objective game such as demolition or sabotage.
It's also useful for snipers if somebody happens to sneak up on you.
Just respawn and take revenge!
Claymores are everybody's best friends.
They can be left unmonitored and still get you a kill.
For campers and snipers, these can watch your back for you.
For anyone else, just stick one in a place where people normally run, and you'll get a free kill.
C's are very useful in objective-based games.
In domination, you can plant a C4 on a flag, and when the enemy team tries to capture it, just detonate it and get some kills.
In search and destroy, demolition, and sabotage, just throw one next to a bomb, and if someone plants it (or tries to defuse it) just blow it up!
Special grenade.
Special grenades give you the upper-hand in any fire-fight.
Would you like to conceal yourself while planting a bomb, or capturing a flag?
Grab a smoke grenade!
These provide excellent cover while playing these objectives, and can also be used to maneuver around an area and flank an opponent.
Stuns and flash grenades can give you a strong advantage in any situation.
Just pop one out and kill them!
Perk number one.
First Tier Perk
If you like to rush the enemy, or are looking to quick-plant a bomb, go with Marathon.
The Pro version will allow you to climb over obstacles quicker.
Sleight of hand is great for anybody who has been killed while they were reloading.
The Pro upgrade of this perk will give you the ability to ADS (Aim Down Sights) quicker.
Scavenger is good for those who are constantly running out of ammunition and equipment by picking up a small blue package from dead bodies.
The Pro version is an equivalent of bandolier, which gives you more ammo to start with.
Bling will allow you to attach an additional attachment to your primary weapon.
This could let you attach a helpful sight, a silencer, heartbeat sensor, or FMJ in a combination of two.
The Pro upgrade lets you attach two attachments to your secondary weapon as well.
One Man Army is the final perk allowing you to switch classes without having to respawn.
You can also use it to replenish ammo and equipment by switching to the exact same class.
The Pro version switches classes faster (Fromseconds down to 3).
Perk 2.
Second Tier Perk
Stopping Power is a great perk that will work great for you if you're playing a Core game.
It will let you kill enemies quicker and with less ammo.
The Pro version lets your bullets do more damage against vehicles.
Lightweight lets you move faster while walking or sprinting.
The Pro version allows you to pull your weapon out quicker after sprinting, making it a must for any rusher.
Hardline is for those the people who want to get Kill Streak rewards quicker, you need one less kill to get a kill streak reward, for example; To get a Chopper Gunner it will takekills instead of 11.
The Pro version makes your death streaks take one less death.
Cold-Blooded is a great perk, hiding you from UAV, air support, Sentry Guns, and thermal sights.
When using the Pro version, the enemy will not see your name, nor will their crosshairs turn red when looking at you.
Danger Close will make your explosives do more damage and have a larger splash radius.
The positives are self explanatory.
The Pro version makes your kill streaks do more damage.
Which means your choppers, harriers, air strikes and AC-s will do more damage.
Perk 3.
Third Tier Perk
Commando allows you to melee from distances that would normally be out-of-reach.
The knife attack takes very little time, as your opponent will only see you teleport at them (it's still possible to be killed whilst 'lunging').
The Pro version of this lets you jump off high places without taking any fall damage (unless outside the map).
Steady Aim increases your hip fire accuracy, helping if you don't have time to ADS (Aim Down Sights).
The Pro version lets you hold your breath longer while sniping or looking down a thermal scope.
This will help if you need more time to line up a good shot.
Ninja will keep you from showing up on enemy heartbeat sensors.
The Pro version will make your footstepsx quieter, making them you very hard to hear.
Sitrep will give you the ability to detect enemy equipment.
They will appear bright red and can be seen through many walls.
The Pro version makes enemy footstepsx louder (unless they have Ninja Pro on).
Last Stand is well known to anybody that has played a Call of Duty game.
This will let you pull out a handgun after dying until you are killed or you bleed out.
The Pro version allows you to use equipment and special grenades while in last stand.
Painkiller will give youx as much health for 10 seconds.
This can give you an advantage and save your life at times.
Copycat lets you steal your killer's loadout.
Martyrdom makes you drop a live frag grenade after death.
Final Stand lets you go into last stand with your primary weapon.
After a while in Final Stand, you will get back up after a while (if you are not killed first) and can continue playing, but will not go into Final Stand again.