potsResearch first.
Find out which butterflies are common in your area.
Observation over a few days and the use of a butterfly field guide will help you in this pursuit.
Choose "Host Plants" for your garden.
Note from your research what the caterpillar (larvae) of the local butterflies eat.
Two excellent examples are:
Milkweed
Milkweed - this attracts the Monarch caterpillar.
Parsley
Parsley - this attracts the Black Swallowtail caterpillar.
Choose "Nectar Plants" for your garden.
Nectar plants serve as the food source for the butterfly.
There is a variety of possible plants and some of them are shown here.
Excellent choices include:
Butterfly Bush
A Butterfly Bush - this is suitable for a Swallowtail.
Large plant: 4 feet (1.2m) tall, 6 feet (1.8m) wide, make sure it is hardy in your area.
Some varieties are considered invasive, so make sure, if you purchase one of these, that you keep it dead-headed to prevent seed production.
Swamp Milkweed
Swamp Milkweed - suitable for the Snowberry Clearwing.
This plant growsfeet (.9m) tall and 18 inches (.5m) wide.
It also serves as the host plant for Monarch caterpillars.
Joe Pye Weed
Joe Pye Weed - this is suitable for the Swallowtail.
It grows to be a very large plant -feet (2.4m) tall and 4 feet (1.2m) wide.
It is a perennial.
Aster
Aster - Asters grow tofeet (.9m) tall and 2 feet (.6m) wide.
It is a perennial.
Butterflies especially love native varieties.
Bee Balm
Bee Balm - this plant growsfeet (.6m) tall and 18 inches (.5m) wide.
It is a perennial.
Zinnia
Zinnia - this plant is attractive to a range of butterflies and they especially like the tall varieties.
The plant generally growsfeet (1.2m) high and 1 foot (.3m) wide.
It is an annual and is easy to start from seed.
Pentas
Pentas - suitable for Swallowtails.
This plant growsfeet (.6m) hight and 3 feet (.9m) wide.
It is an annual in cold climates.
Heliotrope
Heliotrope - this plant attracts a range of butterflies.
It grows to a height offeet (.6m) and a width of 1 foot (.3m), although it is possible to contain it in a pot.
It will remain a perennial in temperate zones but is only an annual in cold climates.
Plan garden on paper.
Draw up a plan, or decide where to add these suggestions to a current garden.
Keep in mind the full grown size of plants during this planning stage.
Also consider their needs for light and water.
Purchase plants or seeds from garden center.
You can also get these plants and seeds online.
Choose robust and healthy plants to give them a good start.
Plant your butterfly garden.
Make sure to keep new plants and seeds watered until plants are well-established or seeds germinate.
Keep the weeds at bay, to give the plants a good chance.