practice)Paint your walls.
For your Paris-themed bedroom, there are few options when it comes to painting your walls.
You could either paint your walls a light, baby pink, or, for a less girly look, a simple cream or beige colour.
You could even use light ice blues or Tiffany Blues (Tiffany & Co.) Pick which one you'd like the best.
If you aren't allowed to paint your bedroom, that's okay too.
Either way, decorate your walls.
You could use vinyl wall stickers in different shapes such as the Eiffel tower and put them on your walls, or hire a professional painter to paint a mural on your walls.
Look for a bed like this one!
Get the furniture.
The furniture you choose is very important, as it really adds a Parisian feel to your room.
You should have the following items in your bedroom.
A bed.
This bed should be a wrought-iron bed, as this will really make it feel like Paris.
As an alternate idea, you could also use a canopy bed.
If you have a wood bed that's still okay; it will just be a little more rustic.
Side table.
Again, this should be wrought-iron.
Think about the tables at a caf in Paris!
Long, skinny, curved legs are a great idea.
If you can't find a metal bedside table, wooden is fine.
After all, metal wasn't always used.
Dresser.
You should buy a dresser with a mirror attached.
This dresser should have a Parisian feel to it.
Think chic, clean, crisp.
A glass top ($-ish dollars) is adorable and very mature.
Plus it's very pretty looking.
For handles, use crystal or glass knobs.
Desk.
Again, a Parisian feel is a must.
Paint your furniture.
If you're allowed to, paint your furniture the same colour so that it all co-incides.
Paint all of your furniture either white/cream or black.
Accent your furniture with touches of gold to make it look classy.
For the knobs on things like your drawers, look for glass knobs, as these look classy as well.
If glass costs too much, plastic is fine.
You really have to look and feel to be able to tell.
Get a small chandelier like this, but in white!
Get some lighting.
If you have a ceiling lamp, replace it with a glass chandelier.
This is very French and will help draw your room together, especially if you used glass or plastic doorknobs.
Get a desk lamp too, with a simple white/cream or black shade.
Don't forget the curtains.
Buy a wrought-iron curtain rod and some white/cream or sheer black curtains.
They key here is simplicity.
This is just a finishing touch to your room.
Sheer curtins are best; think organza.