MapCameraUnderstand signs of codependency.
There are many signs and most of them are related to boundaries.
Like boundaries with personal "physical" space (ie.
standing too close to someone in an elevator) people in codependent relationships interfere with others by invading emotional space.
When you realize you feel uncomfortable when asked for (un-needed) "help", a person close to you is always "needing help" and you are the main provider for comfort or any other support, or feeling pulled in many directions by the people closest to you.
Explore books about codependency and its effects on the family and relationships.
Look for material on the Internet and gain an understanding on the causes of the relationship difficulties.
Codependent parents, for example, may rely on their grown children in unhealthy ways, reversing the parent-child dynamic.
Pulling away from this dynamic is a positive move toward establishing healthy personal boundaries.
It does not mean that you're a "bad" son or daughter, even if the parent claims that this is the case.
The best way to move out of a codependent relationship is to stop focusing on the other, and to focus on yourself and your health.
When you put your need to grow, mature, and become a healthier person first, that will create a shift in your codependent relationship.
Be aware that doing this work will destabilize the relationship and make things harder before it makes them better.
Imagine you and the person with whom you have a codependent relationship are roped together and standing on ladders next to one another.
As things are now, you are stabilized--on the same rungs on your ladders and the rope around you both is taut.
You understand the unspoken rules of how you interact.
Now, when you begin to get healthy, begin moving up your ladder, the other person in the relationship will feel the pull of the rope and try to pull you back down, may even move down her / his ladder a rung or two to get to you move back to where things were.
This is normal.
Continue your work to grow, mature, and become healthier.
The rope can stretch.
Eventually the other person will have to begin getting healthier as well or will have to rethink the importance of the relationship.
(and generally, most folks will choose to get healthier, thus making the whole thing less codependent)