ages.Talk to your coworker about it.
Before trying to manage the situation, see if it's possible to discuss it in a polite and sensitive way.
Be subtle and avoid using any language or insinuations that your coworker is at fault or is working in a substandard manner.
The reality is that this coworker may well be getting the work done but their method of timing causes you or other people unnecessary stress because you're waiting on their input.
Explain how important it is for both of you to have everything done on time and to have the work under control, perhaps so that there is time to do checks and make any necessary corrections.
Be nice, be friendly , and keep the scolding tone completely out of your voice.
For example:
"Hey Simpson, I love your work and last week's results proved that your ideas are sensational.
I just wanted to ask a favour I was hoping we might be able to start scheduling our completion date for days prior to the real deadline, to give us time to work in changes and updates.
It's hard for me to do everything at the last minute because if I feel pressured , I tend to panic and make obvious mistakes that aren't so obvious to me at the time.
It'd be really helpful for me if we could change the pace to make it a little less pressured and to give us that extra space for finalizing things.
What do you think about this idea?"
Choose a friendly and enjoyable location to discuss the matter.
Take your coworker out for a coffee or for lunch , to somewhere nice where talking about the matter is easier and not pressured.
It'll also be a lot more familiar and your coworker will be more likely to see the human side to your request, especially when you explore how the pressure they're creating impacts on you.
Listen to your coworker's reasons for that working pace.
You may not be aware of everything that's going on in your coworker's job.
Be open to your coworker's ideas on how to solve the problem.
Be sure that you're not a cause for concern on the pressure front.
Do your own work on time.
You can't try to make your coworker work according to a time frame if you don't.
Be responsible about your work , be realistic about timing, and set a good example by being on time within the confines of what is under your control.
Be thoughtful about your coworker's working style.
It's a fact of life that some people thrive on the last minute pressure a deadline brings to kick them into real action.
Prior to that point, it may not seem as real for such a person and in many cases, the pressure genuinely brings about amazing work because the person tends to focus.
The way around this is to keep the discussion to how it impacts your own working style and the need for both of you to reach a compromise.
Yet, working together is a two-way interaction and your coworker also has a responsibility to fit into the workplace needs.
One way of helping directly can be to guide your coworker to learn more about time management and to carefully explain the ways in which spending time on interruptions, non-productive and trivial activities could be shifted to planning, preparing, and preventing last minute cramming.
Suggest that your coworker might like to read Stephen Covey's book First Things First.
This is a popular book that explains time management techniques.
If they don't like reading, suggest the audio version for their MP3 player ; they can discover the ease of time management on the trip home!
Suggest that your coworker have a read of these articles: How to develop your sense of time , How to avoid common time management mistakes , and How to organize your day more efficiently.
Offer to help your coworker transition to a more timely method of working if it seems appropriate.
Don't stick your nose where it's not wanted though; judge everything by the context, the person involved, and the hopefulness of reforming their tardiness.
Begin to pressure your coworker.
If the discussing and attempts at reaching a compromise seem to have been for naught, it's time to apply some pressure.
Stop waiting until your co-worker feels like doing their job,and start calling them regularly asking if the work has been completed within the time span that is objectively reasonable.
Every time you call, email, or talk to your coworker, remind your them that your performance and timeliness is important for you and that you really care about things being done the right way at the right time.
Again, remain polite but emphasize why this matters to you.
You might say something like:
"Sandy, you remember how we talked about getting things done on time last week?
I'd really like to make sure we stick to that because it's already Thursday, the report's due in the morning and well, it seems we've only managed half of it by noon today and that's pushing things too much for me. I don't like having to stay back after work to tidy it up, especially since it's my cousin Gertrude's coming out party tonight and she expects me to be her emcee.
It also matters to me that old Johnno sees we're working effectively as a team and that my timeliness is not under scrutiny for something I'm responsible for."
If you want something to be done well, do it yourself.
If your coworker is not helping after you talked to them, you have to start doing whatever you can to have things done the right way, even if it means to do their job one time . And before you start thinking that this is going to turn into an excuse for your coworker to force you to do their work every time, don't.
Only do this once, ever.
After that, go to your coworker and tell them what it cost you in terms of time, energy, resources, and fulfillment to complete their tasks on time to a satisfactory standard.
While being polite, be firm and point out the facts of the situation clearly.
Firmly tell your coworker that this is the last time you pick up the pieces and request that the two of you try again to make this work.
It may also help to insist politely that if this situation happens again, you'll feel obliged to take the matter up with your supervisor or boss to work out an arrangement that is fairer to you.
You might say something like this to your coworker:
"Vigo, thanks for the first part of the plan but I really needed to see the middle and end parts by 4pm today.
I am due to catch a plane at 8pm this evening and so I decided I'd finish the plan myself in order to get it in on time before I leave.
But I'm not doing this ever again; the pressure was too great and I haven't even had time to pack underpants for this trip interstate and I'll be worrying about the other things I didn't get done as a result of spending extra time on finalizing this plan.
In future, could you please at least let me know you're not ready a few days before so that we can do something about it much earlier.
Seriously mate, I love your work and I love working with you, but if this keeps up I'm going to have to ask Ms Molloy if some other arrangement can be worked out so I don't get so stressed anymore."
Be serious about it.
If it is not working for you two, you have to do something about it, and after all, you have already talked to them before and given them the opportunity to change tactics.
Give your co-worker the last chance to do things right.
Everyone deserves a last chance, so before you go ahead and talk to your boss , see how your coworker responds the next time around to another situation that requires timeliness.
If all works out, then it could be terrific, and it at least proves that your coworker can manage to be timely and you get to remind the co-worker of this.
Cease pressuring your coworker if they've received the message and responded but do maintain vigilance and give adequate reminders of timing to keep them on track.
Until you see that they've really changed track, you'll need to remain vigilant.
Your reminder might be something like this:
"Sally, that was terrific the way you handled the X job on time.
I was so impressed and I knew you could do it!
And this Y job is pretty similar and I just know you're going to be able to pull off the same approach within the time frame we've discussed, so I'm looking forward to adding my part from noon tomorrow.
Thanks!"
Perhaps one way you might approach this is as follows: "Mr Amery, I have really been enjoying working on designing unbreakable toys with Gary this past year.
He is incredibly talented and his ability to work out how to prevent kids from ripping apart toys within the first few hours of ownership is astounding.
There is just one thing that concerns me though and that is how we rarely get the toy designs ready on time, and how I always seem to be running to the toy factory with the designs just as they're about to be put into the molds.
I can't work like this anymore because I also need time to add my colors and special eye and hair designs to the toys and when everything happens at the last minute, I end up doing half the job I'd like to do and I feel somewhat resentful that it's my side of the design process that has to be hurried rather than his.
Do you think that there is some way we can work around this or perhaps even have me do different design work for a while?"
Again, make sure your slate is clean before making your complaint.
If there is anything you're doing to hold up your coworker, it will be noticed at this stage!