older)Examine your dream job.
Whether you've always wanted to be a poet or a secret agent, college is a good time to assess your dream jobs and decide if you really want to live those dreams.
Look up your selected occupations in the Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook Handbook (see the links section for the web version).
This resource provides up-to-date information on salaries, work environments and employment outlook for hundreds of jobs.
If, after your research, you still want to pursue your dream job, the Handbook also details what sort of training you will need--you can just pick your major based on that.
Take stock of your interests.
Maybe your dream job isn't as interesting as you thought.
What are your hobbies?
What sorts of activities do you enjoy doing, and what activities do you think you'd like to do?
You can assess your interests yourself or take an interest assessment--available online or from your college's advising department--to help you identify what sort of work you might like.
Once you have a clear idea of the sort of work you'd like to do, you can choose a major accordingly.
If your interest is something that requires a graduate school degree, particularly one that emphasizes the graduate school's prestige, think of college as largely a long-term entrance exam.
Choose a major that will lead to an acceptable job if you don't get into the graduate program you want, that meets any admission requirements of relevant graduate programs, that sounds (and involves courses whose titles sound) intellectual, and that will produce favorable grades (hard-science and engineering courses tend not to in the United States at least, and the competition is stiffer).
In this case, don't take a major that requires building on knowledge you don't have and can't pick up quickly, such as advanced mathematics, particularly if your competitors will be better prepared.
You might even check in advance which, if any, graduate programs' entrance exams you would do well in before settling into a major to follow them.
(Medical school exams and at least some GREs are tests of knowledge which you can expect to prepare for by doing well in the relevant kinds of classes, but many other programs' are abstruse "intelligence" type tests performance on which college will not much improve, and test-preparation classes improve to a limited extent.)
Define your goals.
It's good to think about what's really important to you.
What do you want from life?
If you want to unlock the meaning of life, philosophy may be the perfect major.
If, however, you really just want to make a lot of money, Nietzsche may not be your niche.
Explore your options.
Try reading the major requirements and course descriptions in college catalogs.
It's ok if you still can't figure out what you want to be "when you grow up."
You've got hundreds of different classes at your fingertips, so go ahead and try whatever sounds interesting.
Most liberal arts curriculum encourage or even require you to sample a variety of disciplines.
In so doing, you may find a class that will spark a passion you didn't even know you had.
Get help.
Your college's academic advising and career counseling offices offer a treasure trove of resources--from books and assessment tests to the advisors themselves--that many students never even use.
If you're having trouble choosing a major, drop in or schedule an appointment with an advisor.
And remember, if you don't like the advice you get, you don't have to take it.
Get several perspectives by talking with others.
Some of the best people to talk to are - not surprisingly - upperclassmen who have almost completed their major.
They can giver you a better and broader perspective than anyone else.
Ask a guidance counselor, parent, or reading a brochure may still only give a vague idea of let's say, what chemical engineering is. This is simply because the former two only can guess what it entails, and the latter is more likely propaganda to get you to join that major than informational.
Talk to juniors and seniors as they will tell you what majors entails, along with the good and the bad.
Hedge your bets.
Who says you have to choose just one major?
Most colleges allow you to double- or even triple-major, and you can also minor in one or more subjects relatively easily.
While taking on another major or minor may extend the time you're in school, it can unlock a world of opportunity.
There's a lot to learn out there, after all.