you).Know the growing conditions.
Know what the weather conditions are in your area, and choose plants that have similar growing needs.
Make sure that the plants you choose need the same amount of sunlight and water, and the same type of soil.
Choose a container.
There are many different types of containers.
Here are some of the most common.
Also, make sure the container has drainage holes.
If it doesn't, drill some if you can, or choose a different pot.
Terra cotta Terra cotta looks good with a variety of plants, and can be simple or elaborate, but it is heavy and isn't frost resistant.
Unglazed terra cotta has good air circulation.
This window box is made of wood.
Wood Wood has a natural look.
It is usually used in window boxes and barrels.
You can line the container with plastic or burlap.
If you use plastic, cut drainage holes in the bottom.
Make sure that the wood has not been treated with plant-harming chemicals.
Plastic Plastic pots are lightweight and come in almost all colors, shapes, and sizes.
They can also be made to look like clay.
Plastic doesn't chip and don't break in cold weather.
Plastic pots do not allow very much air circulation.
Moss Moss is usually used in hanging baskets.
It allows you to plant through the sides of the container.
Since moss dries out quickly, you will need to water it often.
Choose a color theme.
This design uses the primary colors with fountain grass for texture.
Analogous colors: These are colors that are next to each other on the color wheel.
Warm colors, like red and yellow, are bright, and look good with terra cotta or wood.
Cool colors, like blue or lavender, look tranquil and go with terra cotta, stone, or other cool colored containers.
Monochromatic colors are different shades of one color.
It gives a quiet feel.
If you want it to look more interesting, you can use a contrasting container.
Complementary colors: These are colors opposite to each other on the color wheel.
They have a vibrant look, but if you want it to look subtler, use colors that are not as bright or contrasting.
For example, yellow with dark purple would more dramatic than yellow with lavender.
Other color themes: You can use any combination of colors you want; for example, red, white, and blue.
Fountain grass (Pennisetum setaceum) also comes in a dwarf form and is the most commonly used ornamental grass in container gardens.
Choose different textures.
It is best to use plants of a variety of textures, since they will make the design look more natural.
Foliage is good for adding texture.
Ornamental grasses are also a good choice; they come in many different sizes, colors, and growth habits.