wet.Have a laundry carrying device : a laundry bag or two, basket, collapsible container, backpack, duffel bag...whatever will make it possible to carry your dirty clothing.
Ideally, have your container also be your "hamper".
Have your college charge card or keep plenty of quarters on hand.
Many universities do not use quarters any more for laundry, but rather students have a card (which also allows them into their dorm, contains meal plans, etc.), which cash can be put onto and used for laundry or other miscellaneous fees.
Gather laundry materials together : clothes, carrying device, detergent, fabric softener, hangers, stain remover, etc. Avoid multiple trips.
Bring your room key , even if your roommate says he or she isn't leaving your room --you definitely do NOT want to be stuck in your dorm hall with a pile of now clean laundry and no way to get into your room.
Pre-Treat Laundry Stains.
If you haven't already, do it now.
If you don't have a stain remover, put a dollop of laundry soap on the stain and rub in.
Only use a bleach pen on white clothing!
Empty all of your pockets in your clothes.
A pen or lipstick tube can easily ruin all of your clothes.
You also don't want your cell phone to go through the wash.
Locate washers next to each other.
If you can't, that's OK, but it's harder to keep track of which machines are "yours".
It may help to put a laundry basket or some other locator on your machine.
Separate your "Whites" from your "Darks" and "Fine Washables".
"Whites" usually refers to cottons, cotton blends, light colors, or anything that can be washed without damage in high temperature.
This will also include your towels and sheets.
"Darks" usually include dark colors that will fade in repeated hot washings, or fabrics that should not (or do not have to) be washed in hot water.
If in doubt, (like a red and white striped shirt) always choose the colder, more gentle cycle!
Blue jeans should be washed with the darks.
Wash TOWELS and BED sheets/ blankets separately not with clothes.
Unsure?
Check the garment label for recommended care.
Red and purple fabrics in particular have a nasty habit of releasing dye into the wash and turning white items pink.
Put the reds, pinks, oranges, etc. in a separate load, or, if you only have reds, wash them in with the darks.
Bright green and lime-green fabrics sometimes turn yellow in the washing machine...Wash all your clothes of this color by hand.
Turn tops --especially delicate clothing, screen printed tops, and sweatshirts inside out and secure the drawsrings on items like hoodies, track pants.
Read the Detergent Label's Directions.
Put the recommended amount of detergent in the machine.
Don't put too much, as it will actually hinder cleaning your clothes.
Start the machine as directed.
Put clothes in machine.
Do not stuff too full!
Your clothes will not get clean and the machine might break!
Allow room for clothes to agitate during the wash cycle.
DO NOT LEAVE CLOTHES UNATTENDED
Wait.
You will have between 35-45 minutes to just hang out and make sure no one takes your laundry out of the machine.
Don't leave your laundry defenseless--thieves steal from the dorm routinely.
Do your homework.
Find dryers when your clothes are completely done that will fit all of your laundry.
One load will usually equal one dryer load.
Do not overfill, or the drying will take forever, or you may even break the dryer.
If you totally dry outer clothing "to the bone" you may be at risk for shrinkage or scorching, so you may wish to go pull outer clothing out of the dryer before it is totally dry.
Then hang it up and stretch/unwrinkle it.
Whites will usually take a normal/high setting, such as cotton T-shirts, sheets and towels.
However, you may be at risk for shrinkage or scorching, so you may wish to go with a slightly lower setting.
Darks will usually be on a medium setting.
You can use a higher setting if you're washing lots of dark cottons.
Fine washables should be either air-dried, line-dried, or dried on the lowest setting available.
If in doubt, dry at a lower setting, as shrinking of clothes usually happens in the dryer.
Check the lint trap if your dryer has one (many commercial ones do not), scoop out any lint present, and put the lint trap back in place.
Throw a drying sheet in the dryer before starting.
If you so choose.
Deposit coins or use card.
Wait Again.
You may have between 30-60 minutes to chill and wait for your clothes.
Do more homework.
When Dryer cycle is complete, Don't Wrinkle.
Deal with wrinkle-prone articles immediately, so they don't get wrinkled.
This may mean either putting on a hanger or folding appropriately.
Folding will reduce the bulk you will have to carry back up.
Fold or hang jeans and slacks the way you would want them pressed (flat or with a crease down the front of the leg) directly out of the dryer and the will be virtually wrinkle free.
Double-Check the Dryer.
Make sure you didn't forget any socks, loose change, or other small items in the machine.