plane.Identify your strongest craft skills.
You may be good at a number of different crafts but it is important to be objective when it comes to deciding which of your craft skills will make some money.
Choose the craft items that are:
Professional - this means that the craft item meets a desire or a need: such as being something that somebody would like to display in their home (for example, figurines, paintings, sculptures) or that people would use daily (for example, pottery bowls, jewelry, tools, bread boards etc.).
Durable and interesting - likely to last a while without fading, chipping, falling apart etc.
Original and presentable - elegant or plain, a successful craft item will carry special appeal to attract a buyer.
Think about the ways to add a special feature or flair that will attract a buyer.
It might be as simple as your own little message "Made by Hayley,years old" or a signature mark "signed XXXX, Ratchaburi, 2007" so that the buyer can see that it is unique.
Or you might develop a unique design, colour or feature.
Make it stand out above the other craft items it will be compared with.
Create a marketing plan.
It is important to think about some basic elements that will ensure the success of your little crafts business:
Can you source the materials easily and are they affordable?
Your business will cost you money to start with because you need to purchase the materials.
However, there are ways to cut down the costs, such as recycling materials you already have at hand, borrowing money from family to give you a helping hand, buying materials "in bulk" if this works out to be cheaper etc. If you are skilled in making craft items that come directly from nature, your costs will likely be a lot lower.
Do you have a stockpile of craft items ready?
You will need to make enough craft items to start the business successfully.
Where will you sell your items?
Will you open a stall at a local market where crafts are sold and sell them yourself?
Or will you ask an existing market stall owner or a local store to take your crafts "on consignment" and sell them on your behalf?
This will lessen your profits but spare your time.
How will you transport your items?
Do you have boxes or baskets to put your craft items in?
Can you walk or cycle them to market or will you need to use a car, bus or some other form of transport?
If so, consider how you will manage carrying your craft items about and whether you have access to the proper transportation methods.
How will you display your craft items?
Sometimes a simple blanket laid on the ground will be fine; other times you may need to have your own table.
Tables are often something that you can rent at a market but this will increase your costs.
Perhaps someone can give you a foldaway table or maybe you could ask another stallholder to share space with you and split the costs.
How often will you sell your craft items?
Will you sell them weekly, monthly or just now and then?
How often you decide to sell them will be an important consideration in working out how much stock you need to have always available and how seriously you will treat your craft making as a source of personal income.
It may be helpful to write down a plan over a period of time, especially if you are planning on growing larger as time goes on.
Jewelry
Promote your craft sales.
Make posters to hang and cards to hand out if this is allowed in the market.
Tell people what you are doing and ask your friends and family to let others know that you have craft items available for sale.
Set regular craft-making sessions.
If you plan to sell regularly, you will also need to keep your stock up.
Make a plan of when you will devote time to making more craft items to increase your stock.
Also use this time to plan new items to expand your business, if this is appropriate.
Develop a sales pitch.
You know your product well - be prepared to describe it well.
Write down words that you think best describe each of your craft items so that you can practice these in advance.
Use a dictionary if you cannot find words that create a visually appealing image in the buyer's mind.
Choose words relating to color, shape, texture and ease-of-use or ability to make the owner of the item feel happy.