PCYou may improve your health and have a physically fit body by getting into consistent weight loss diet.
This is the best way for you to have a stronger body and gain confidence.
And can help you to be at your best fighting form as well.
Here are some guidelines from the experts in choosing weight loss plans and goals.
Set realistic approaches.
What is important is to be precise on your goals.
The ability to focus and have proper mindset enables someone on a diet to lose those extra pounds.
With discipline and proper mind set, a dieter will never be discouraged and lose focus.
Develop a strategy - Strength of will does not work alone!
To lose weight and stay with it, your strategy must comprise of both exercise and diet, and not either of the two.
Be realistic - Most people's long-term weight loss plans are more ambitious than they have to be.
Eat small, healthy meals frequently.
Five small-serving snacks per day is better than three hearty meals.
Eating more frequently, and in small servings, can prevent over-eating.
This will also increase your metabolism and make calories burn faster.
Keep a note of everything that you eat and drink.
You do not need to estimate calories.
Just write down what it was that you had and the quantity.
You will find that being more aware of what you are eating helps you to plan healthy meals and snacks.
Focus on doing, not losing.
Rather than saying that you are going to lose a pound this week, say how much you are going to exercise this week.
This would definitely make up of a sensible weight loss plan.
Build bit by bit.
Short-term weight loss plans should not be "pie-in-the-sky."
This means that when you have never exercised at all, your best weight loss plan for this week should be based on finding three different one-mile routes that you can walk next week.
Keep up the self-encouragement.
An all-or-nothing attitude only sets you up to fail.
Learn to evaluate your efforts fairly and objectively.
If you fall short of some goals, just look ahead to next week.
You do not need to have a perfect record.
After all, self-encouragement should definitely be a part of your weight loss plans.
Otherwise, you will just fail in the end.
A rare treat.
Limit treats containing sugar to one reasonable serving three times per week.
This includes chocolate, ice cream, desserts, cake, pastries, cookies, etc. It's always a good idea to leave 24 hours between treats.
Include a lower fat source of protein at most meals : chicken, fish, beans, cottage cheese, or low fat yogurt.
Have eggs, nuts and red meat alternately.
Plan at least one lunch and dinner every week without meat or cheese.
Build those meals around whole grains, vegetables and beans to increase fiber and reduce fat.
Reduce the fat content in your milk products.
If you are currently drinking whole milk, reduce to 2% fat.
From 2% reduce to 1%.
Choose lower fat cheese and yogurt.
When you buy yogurt, also check that it does not contain sugar.
Have two servings of fruit every day.
This can be for dessert or snacks.
Choose fruit that is in season.
Limit fruit because it is so full of sugar.
Drink water instead of sodas, juices, milky drinks or alcohol.
Hot water with a slice of lemon can be very refreshing in the morning.
Include at least two servings of vegetables at lunch and dinner.
If you are getting hungry, have more.
Eat slowly.
The body is slow to register when you are full and it is easy to eat too much if you are racing through your meals.
Google "Eating slowly" your brain needs about 20 minutes to get the "Satiation signal" If you eat fast you will overeat, even get bloated and still feel hungry.
Use whole grains wherever possible.
The fiber will give you a fuller feeling and also help your digestion.
Engage in low-impact aerobics.
Aerobics are not only good for the heart by increasing cardio-vascular endurance.
Aerobics also help in increasing lean muscle mass while simultaneously decreasing excess body fat.
Aside from these, aerobics make the metebolic process more efficient and its rate high, even after a long while.
Exercise is good
Stay motivated to exercise . Exercise is always a do-it-yourself venture.
No other person and no machine can do it for you.
There are many reasons in order to keep you motivated to exercise and stay healthy for the rest of your life.
Get as much exercise as you can that feels good without letting it interfere with your work or family life.
Remind yourself that you are preventing many health problems when you prevent weight gain; and keeping your health is a gift to your family as well as yourself.
Always switch off the TV when you eat.
That includes snacks as well as meals.
Studies have proved that we eat larger portions in front of the TV, probably because we are much less aware of what we are eating.
Healthy Eating, Regular Exercise and positive attitude are the only things you need to lose fat permanently.