age.Start off with a positive attitude.
No matter how much fun the activity is, if you're not in a positive state of mind, then you will not enjoy it as much as possible.
Take or make friends.
The key to any enjoyment.
Make sure you surround yourself with people you can get along with and enjoy their company.
Take weekend trips to Fujairah, Abu Dhabi, etc.
Get your scuba diving license and discover a whole new world under the sea.
Feel the excitement of deep-sea fishing, you'll catch baby-sharks, huge barracudas, and a lot of tasty fish if you fish at the right time and season.
Organize BBQ parties during the winter season.
Go on a desert safari trip with an experienced company such as Net Tours, Arabian Adventures, etc.
Go to All-you-can-eat and all-you-can-drink restaurants (Sails, Spice Island, Benihana, etc).
Go snow-skiing in the Mall of the Emirates.
Treat yourself to a Spa (men included)
Go dune-buggying in the desert.
Go go-karting at the Dubai Autodrome.
Explore the endless numbers of bars/clubs opening up every month.
Go horse-back riding in Jebel Ali.
Visit the Dubai Zoo.
However, don't forget to visit the new Dubai Zoo when it opens soon.
Do water-sports with your friend's boat or try the Dubai Water Ski Club at the Garhoud bridge.
Or any private beach club.
Go sailing at Jebel Ali Sailing Club (JASC) or Dubai Offshore Sailing Club (DOSC).
Go running with Hash House Harriers.
They are held on Sunday nights at the Dubai Desert H3 (mixed)and Tuesday nights at Creek H3 (men only).
This is a hare and hounds run with refreshments, food, entertainment and sometimes a tee-shirt afterwards - drinkers with a running problem!
Theme parks are always a great time as well.
Make sure you check out DUBAILAND when it opens soon.
Go to the movies, shisha cafes.
Chilling on the beach can be awesome, too.
Camel-ride along the shoreline during a summer sunset
Have dinner for two on the beach with a personal waiter/waitress.
Take a scenic helicopter ride over the Palm, the World and the Burj Al Arab
Enjoy the beautiful sun-rise over Dubai's deserts from a hot-air balloon ride.
Rent a Segway and drive along the pedestrian-friendly Jumeirah Beach Road.