dissociation.Understand the mechanics behind a sinking ship.
While this is mainly for the sake of curiosity, understanding how a ship sinks can be useful and give you a sense of what occurs if you're ever stuck in the situation of being on a sinking ship.
Water usually enters the lowest point of a ship first, the bilge area.
[1] Ships have bilge pumps to remove this water once it reaches a certain level.
Reasons for why a ship might sink include a low transom, missing drain plugs, cooling system leaks, navigational error, hitting another ship or an object such as an iceberg, or openings either incorrectly closed or bashed open (such as doors on a car ferry ).
[2] A ship that is suddenly taking on water will start to rock less and less.
If the ship is rolling a lot, it's more stable than if it's not.
The ship will start to heel as more and more water enters the ship and spreads throughout its different compartments.
By this stage, the captain needs to make a decision to abandon ship if everything the crew has done to this point isn't working.
From this point on, sinking will occur quickly.
[3]
Always check for the location of personal flotation devices once you have boarded any sea vessel.
Whether you're going on a short trip across the harbor, a day trip, or a cruise, knowing the location of the personal flotation device in advance may save your life.
When going on a cruise , part of the standard safety drill at the beginning will include asking you to check that your PFD is in the cabin space.
Be sure to check for infant or child PFDs if also needed and alert crew immediately if these are not in place.
In addition, look for the lifeboats nearest to your cabin, along with any obvious markers that might lead you to the boats if visibility becomes bad; as with aircraft, there will often be lights designating where safety exits are.
Read the instructions for putting on the personal flotation device and using it.
If you have any questions, ask the ship's crew.
If you're traveling on a ship where the crew speaks a different language from your own, find people who can advise you directly on what to do in the event of an emergency.
It is prudent to seek this information even before you board the ship.
A recent study theorized that your sense of etiquette might vary with the speed of the ship's sinking.
[] Frey, Savage, and Torkler's study [5] found that more women and children survived the sinking of the Titanic than on the Lusitania , where more young men and women survived.
The Lusitania sank in 18 minutes, whereas the Titanic sank in 2 hours, 40 minutes, and the study concluded that selfish behavior dominates when people are under pressure to survive, whereas social norms and status hold when the pressure is less evident, causing those who behave like gentlemen to end up losing their lives.
In addition, the chivalrous behavior of British men has been posited as a reason for why more of them lost their lives on the Titanic than American men, who were thought to display more individualistic behavior.
[6] Make of that what you will!
Send out a Mayday if you're in charge of the sinking ship.
Read How to call Mayday from a marine vessel to learn how to do this.
Listen for the evacuation signal.
This is standard 7 short horn blasts followed by one long one.
[7] The captain or other crew members may also use the intercom system to speak to all other crew and passengers.
Quickly read any accompanying instructions
Put on your personal flotation device (PFD).
Be as prepared for the exiting the ship as time allows.
If you have time to grab your own PFD and any survival items, do so.
But only if doing so won't endanger your life or the lives of anyone dependent on you.
If you have time, put on all your waterproof gear, such as headgear, jacket, and gloves.
[8] If there is an emergency survival suit available and time permits, put it on.
Note that while survival suits increase your chances of surviving in cold water, they are unlikely to be provided on passenger ships.
For crew who have access to such suits, they will usually be required to practice putting on this suit within 2 minutes.
Attend to all infants, children, and pets after you've prepared yourself.
Listen carefully for directions
Follow directions.
This may be the most important step of all.
If you don't know how to get to safety, the captain or one of the crew members will tell you how.
Ship's crews are highly trained in rescue operations on many ships and will have a better understanding than you about what needs to be done to ensure your safety.
You should only attempt to escape on your own if there is no authority present to give proper directions.
A well-run ship will have a "muster station" where everyone needs to head to in order to move together in an orderly fashion.
If you received a safety drill in going to a muster station, try to comply with it.
If you can't hear or understand the directions (for example, it's not your language), keep one thing in mind - head up and off the ship.
Heading to the center or inner levels of the boat is not wise but don't be surprised if people do this as a result of panic.
If the captain assigns you with tasks, speak up if you don't feel you can comply.
Otherwise, do your best to help out.
Stay calm and don't panic.
It may sound like an inevitable clich , but the more you panic, the longer it will take to get to a lifeboat.
Studies have shown that only about 15 percent of people manage not to panic, with a whopping 70 percent suffering from impaired reasoning and 15 percent becoming irrational.
[9] Thus, staying calm is important for dealing with other passengers as well as helping to keep your own mind focused to do whatever you can to survive.
If others around you are panicking, try as best you can to calm them down.
It will only slow down and possibly endanger your evacuation.
Unfortunately, panic on a cruise is something that can endanger everyone owing to the amount of people involved and this can lead people to push and shove one another, causing injuries before people have even left the ship.
[10]
Be aware that the opposite spectrum of panic can kick in that of being stunned and unable to respond at all.
[11]
Try to focus on keeping your breathing under control.
If you're used to breathing for yoga, pilates, or any similar relaxation breathing techniques, use these to calm you, as well as resorting to breathing this way if you end up in the water trying to survive.
Grab what you can to stay upright
Focus on escaping via the quickest route, not the shortest route.
Getting out fast is more important that getting out by going the shortest way which might even lead you to more danger.
As the ship begins to tilt, grab whatever you can to help you remain upright and able to reach your destination, such as handrails, pipes, hooks, light fittings, etc.
Do not take the elevator.
Just as you should avoid elevators when escaping a fire, the same applies here; all electrically driven items are suspect.
The last place you'll want to be on a sinking ship is stranded in an elevator , so only use it as a last resort of evacuating if the stairs are flooded.
While still in the inner deck areas, watch for catapulting or floating objects coming your way.
Large items hitting you can knock you unconscious or kill you.
Once you've made it on deck, head to your emergency station or the nearest lifeboat available.
Most of today's cruise liners run safety drills and procedures prior to departing on voyages so that passengers know where to go in the event of an emergency.
If not, head to where it seems that the crew are assisting passengers to escape.
Crew will usually be the last to abandon ship, as it is their duty to get everyone else off the ship to possible safety first.
Don't play the hero by staying back while crew is on board.
Do what needs to be done to ensure that survival of yourself and your loved ones is not compromised.
This isn't the movies.
Find a lifeboat . The very best scenario is to enter a lifeboat without getting wet.
The moment you're wet, you risk getting hypothermia or suffering from cold shock (see below).
If lifeboats are already deployed, head for the best place to enter or jump into them, following instructions of crew if relevant.
If there are no lifeboats available, try to find a life preserver ring or similar flotation device and toss it into the water.
Any flotation device is better than none, although your survival chances decrease dramatically once you're forced to spend time in the water.
You may need to jump off the ship , or in some cases, simply step off an incline.
If there is a lifeboat nearby, swim to it, wave your arms, and shout to attract attention.
If jumping, always look first.
There may be people, boats, fires, propellers, etc., in the water below that you could hit or be submerged in.
The ideal scenario is getting straight into a lifeboat; if not the next best scenario is to jump as close to a rescue boat as possible and make your way into it immediately.
Stay calm in the lifeboat, follow directions, and wait for rescue.
Waiting alone in the open ocean without the comfort of a large ship will undoubtedly be frightening, but be patient.
Help is on the way.
In a lifeboat, use rations sparingly.
Use flares only when it is clear that doing so will result in a rescuer seeing you.
Huddle together to keep warm.
Arrange lookout watches.
Collect rainwater and don't drink seawater or urine.
Treat any injuries as best you can.
[13]
Stay determined.
Stories of survivors at sea are a testament that it is the most determined who survive harsh waiting conditions leading up to rescue.
If you couldn't find a lifeboat, look for the next best things, such as a life raft, or bobbing objects from the ship (flotsam) that remain afloat.
Being in cold water will cause hypothermia.
Hypothermia will cause you to want to sleep.
If you fall asleep or fall unconscious, you risk drowning.
Cold shock is the kind of shock that comes from hitting cold water and being unable to control your breathing while your heart rate and blood pressure go up, immediately incapacitating you.
[] Cold shock can cause you to take an involuntary breath, which will often cause you to take in water.
[15] While those who are used to entering cold water can tolerate this for initial few minutes required to regain your senses, many people are not able to do so and drown.
This cold shock phenomenon occurs before hypothermia sets in.
Shock may set in, causing everything to become surreal and to prevent you from doing your best to survive.
If shock doesn't set in, mental distress is a highly likely possibility, with nothing but water everywhere, right to the horizon, and not knowing when rescue will arrive.
Try to prevent this by focusing on surviving, using mind games, counting, thinking about other people's needs, etc.
Your hands and fingers will become numb very quickly, making even doing up a lifejacket difficult, if not impossible.
Even in good weather, heatstroke, sunburn, and dehydration soon become an issue.
Try to cover yourself up as best you can and ration water supplies carefully.
If you do survive, be ready for the reality that some of the people on the lifeboat with you may not.
Seek counseling for post-traumatic stress disorder if needed.