too.Feel pretty by thinking you are.
Understand your good qualities, both inward and external appearance.
When you wake up, go to the bathroom, look straight in the mirror, smile at yourself, and then aloud say 10 good things about yourself and what you think makes you beautiful.
Read self help books, about building your confidence in yourself.
Instead of focusing on your flaws, get stoked about your plus points.
Whatever your good features are (and everyone has them!)--your big brown eyes, your cute nose or your full lips--take time to appreciate them.
It'll go a long way toward bolstering your beauty confidence.
Start writing down a list of all the good things that you have accomplished in your life.
Even if it's a small thing, like you fed a homeless kitten.
It is not the magnitude of the deed, but the fact that you have given of yourself.
Buy a new outfit . Make sure it is in your favorite color.
It does not have to be fancy, or expensive, it just has to be something special, and make you feel good wearing it.
Look in the mirror, and practice smiling . Some people just smile with the mouth, but others, smile with their eyes also.
Smile, while thinking of something that you really are happy about.
Look at your smile.
Then just smile, without thinking of anything at all.
Can you see the difference?
Practice a daily exercise.
Every morning, when you shower, put on your makeup and get dressed.
Look in the mirror, and say to yourself, "I am pretty'.
"I am happy", I am going to do a good deed today".
Soak up some rays.
Sunshine's known to be a major mood-booster.
In fact, in some Northern European countries where the sun rarely shines during winter, people go for light therapy to fight depression.
(But sun damage is even more depressing than sun deprivation--be sure to wear sunscreen.)
Get out of your hairstyle rut.
Sometimes you feel less than your best simply because you've stuck with one style way too long.
Try a change of part, or if you've always wanted to see how you would look with highlights , now's the time to go for it.
Get toned.
You're sure to like your looks better when you feel fit and your muscles are defined.
So find a fitness regimen that suits your level and get moving.
Grab a few winks . There's nothing that puts your looks into a slump like losing out on your zzzzzzs.
What's more, sleep deprivation does a number on your entire outlook.
Wake up your perky personality--and give yourself a beauty treat--by catching up on some needed sack time.
If you can't get in eight to nine hours a night, try fitting in a short nap.
Be Yourself.
Nothing is more attractive than someone who is completely comfortable in her own skin.
Think about inner beauty.
Look at your personality, your talents and your accomplishments.
Everyone has good qualities, both inside and outside, but it's important to realize that people are more than their outer appearance.
It's great to admire people (and yourself!)
for their physical attractiveness, but it's even better to look at what's on the inside.