all!Call friends, former co-workers, former clients, send emails, etc. Let people know you're looking for a job.
They may know of something or can put a good word in with someone they know.
Put the word out . Use your existing contacts and networks to your advantage.
Let people know you are looking for a job.
Ask friends and former colleagues to keep you posted if they hear of anything.
If you are currently working and need an additional job you should speak with your current supervisor.
Let him/her know you are looking to find a part-time job for extra income.
Let them know you won't let it conflict with your primary job.
You don't want them assuming you are looking to leave should the grapevine make it back to them.
They may know of a solution inside your company or they may be able to help you bring in some additional money without finding another job.
Set an afternoon aside to look over your resume ' or CV.
Now is an excellent time to review your resume', make changes, revamp the format, etc.
Consider getting a good friend or two together and have a resume' session.
It's great to have someone there to bounce ideas and wording around.
Have them bring their resume's and everyone can benefit.
This is especially helpful if your friends have excellent resume's and write well.
Resume' examples are available online but you may also find books available in the library or book store with more examples.
Take your time and really look at ways to improve it.
By setting time aside you can make it your primary focus.
Break your resume' down.
Evaluate every word, every phrase and every section.
Make your resume' the very best it can be.
Consider your skill set.
Your unique combination of skills make you more versatile than you may give yourself credit.
Think about other jobs, career fields, industries that use similar skill sets.
You may be narrowing your search to a familiar industry but could increase your options by focusing on your skills rather than your work history.
Look for positions that use your skills and don't focus on the type of company.
It may not be in the same field you were in but in a field that interacted with your former job.
Think of vendors or other companies that worked with or competed with your former job.
You may have worked for a mortgage company before but those same skills could do well selling insurance or working in the financial department of a hospital.
Some companies find employees by looking at the competition.
If you're out of work and there is no immediate conflict you should look at your former competition.
They'll appreciate your knowledge of the industry.
Look online and post your completed resume ' but don't just stop there.
You'll need to actively apply for jobs.
Realize that some companies with high turnovers send interview request emails to most everyone.
Don't waste your time with employers who seem to spam you.
These sometimes take advantage of desperate people looking for jobs.
It may be best to not waste your time, money or energy.
If it seems too good to be true it usually is. Don't drive 400 miles for an interview in a hotel conference room for a company that has never had a conversation with you.
There are several reputable online job search engines.
Post your resume' to several and make your information public to employers.
With reputable sites your information will be searchable by employers looking to hire but won't be seen by the general public.
Don't forget to look for city based job search sites.
Larger cities may offer sites specific for finding jobs in that area.
Make sure you are using key phrases in your resume.
This will help your resume to show up in more queries.
Leave out salary information.
It may disqualify you for certain jobs.
In a poor economy it's better to leave yourself open to negotiate.
Some companies will still advertising openings in the local paper.
Don't overlook the opportunities.
Look at state, local and federal job sites.
Look in the next town.
Smaller towns are often hard hit by business closures.
It may be time to look to the nearest large town.
There may be fewer people with your skills looking there.
You may need to commute and invest in a more affordable car but you could have a steady job.
Talk to your spouse or partner about relocating.
Look for job listings on sites that relate to your desired career field.
Many fields have sites dedicated to the industry and you may find a classified section.
If your field has been hard hit by the economy you could be facing even more competition.
You may need to look into other industries.
Search by company.
Since the online sits often charge the employers many companies set up their own job websites.
Look at the companies you'd like to work for and check their websites for job pages.
Never underestimate the power of a face to face meeting.
Job searches are easy and you can do them in your pajamas but they may not be as effective.
Many people look for a job in a slow economy so the sites are inundated with job seekers.
Print up your resume and go cold calling.
Visit or call businesses and inquire if they're hiring.
Find out the name of the hiring manager and send or deliver a resume' locally to his/her attention.
Avoid Mondays.
These are usually hectic days.
It takes initiative to stop by or hand deliver a resume'.
It stands a good chance of making it to someone's desk.
With so many people looking for work you need to do what you can to stand out and give yourself an edge.
Attach your references and a cover letter.
It saves them time and you seem more forthcoming.
Many hiring managers prefer the path of least resistance.
It is also a good way to "name drop" without name dropping in conversation.
If you have great references you can earn some instant credibility.
Verify your own references first.
Call every one of your references.
Ask if you can list them as a reference.
(You should have asked them before you listed them.)
Not all people like being listed or want to give references.
Verify the address and phone number are still current.
Some may have had a change in title or may have moved on.
In addition to making sure the information is correct you can inform them of your job search.
They may know if something and can help put you in touch with other people.
(Remember your networking skills!)
By letting them know they will also be prepared and not caught off guard by a potential reference check.
They can answer those questions more appropriately than if they'd been caught off guard.
By letting them know you can also hope they'd be more inclined to return a reference call more promptly.
They'll be inclined to "watch out" for the call when they understand the urgency involved.
Consider checking your own references.
If your resume' has been securing interviews but potential employers can't seem to make an offer there may be something fishy with one of your references.
You may need to do some discrete detective work to flush out a bad reference.
Have a mature adult friend or family member call your references.
They should sound professional and unbiased.
They shouldn't mention they know you but should position themselves as someone from a "potential employer" who is calling to check your references.
(See tips.)
Have them ask the most basic questions: "I'm calling to check the references for potential employee.
I'm calling to check the references for "Your Name"...would you recommend this person for a (marketing, sales, administrative, retail, etc.) position?"
"Why?"
Follow up questions can include: "Would you re-hire this person if you could?"
"Is this person responsible and dependable?"
Most companies can only verify your employment dates and can't get into specific details.
If they start dishing rumors or personal information you should notify someone higher up with the company.
Personal references can reveal as much as they'd like.
Verify all of your references are giving positive reference information.
If someone is too hard to contact, won't return calls, or sound negative or less than thrilled to be a reference you should consider removing them as a reference.
People have often listed someone as a reference (even with permission) only to have that reference provide negative feedback to the potential employer.
Make sure your resume' and cover letter are printed on quality paper.
Try a color other than white.
A busy manager may have a lot of paper on their desk and you don't want your resume' to get mixed up in the stack of standard white copy paper.
You want your resume' to stand out even if it's on an ivory or grey tinted resume paper.
If you must use white invest in quality paper with texture and thickness.
Do everything you can to make it easy for them to find it, read it and act on it.
Try your local discount store's office supply section for resume' paper.
It will probably be more affordable than office supply stores.
Resume' quality paper does cost more but it is a justified investment.
Take a day and make as many stops as you can.
Make a plan before you leave the house to make the driving as efficient as you can.
A dollar saved on gas and an hour of time saved on driving can add up.
Get out early and don't wait until 3 or 4 in the afternoon (unless your career field justifies later calls).
By late in the afternoon people have checked out mentally, have gotten busy, left for the day, etc. By stopping in early there's a better chance of your resume' ending up on the right desk by days end.
Create a mature email address.
It's free and can save you some embarrassment or mis-communication.
"Beerdrinkinggurl@..." may have been cool in college but you should really use something more professional.
Using your name is a good bet.
Not only is it logical but it's also easy to spot your emails in their in-box later.
Try yourname@... or something similar.
Adding weird symbols may cause an error when they send you an email and you may never get it.
Keep it simple.
Dress as you would dress for an interview when you go job hunting or to career fairs.
You never know if the hiring manager may be able to meet with you immediately or just see you in the lobby.
Be very polite to the receptionist or anyone else you encounter at their office.
Some companies use other office workers for coverage when the receptionist steps away from the desk.
You never know who you are talking to and it could be someone important.
They will be the one to pass your resume' on.
You don't want them to stick a note to it telling the hiring manager you were a jerk.
Say please and thank you.
If the lobby is packed you can wait until the bulk of the people have passed through.
Allow people to go ahead of you if necessary.
You may be looking for information and that could take more than a minute.
You want to confirm spellings and titles to address your information correctly.
Make a note of the receptionist's name while you are there.
You can say hello to him/her by name when you drop off your information once the cover letter, etc. are personalized for the company and hiring manager.
Remember, this is the person that will pass your information along.
It doesn't cost a thing to make a good impression and be polite.
Building a rapport can go a long way especially when the market is tough.
A smile and a kind word could land your resume' on top of the stack.
Try to find out the name of the department manager and direct your information to them.
Sometimes the human resource manager sits on resume's until the managers ask.
By sending it directly to the department manager you can cut out the middle man and get an advantage.
You probably won't be able to speak to someone at that time.
If it's a large company they may have a human resources department.
These people are busy and probably don't see people on a walk-in basis.
Regardless, you should be able to discuss your goals should you run into the person while you are there.
Carry a notebook and calendar whenever you are out job hunting.
You can schedule a meeting on-site if the opportunity arises, you can take notes and you will also look prepared and professional.
Don't leave it in the car but carry it with you at all times.
A good day planner size will also allow you to insert your resume' without folding it and provide pockets for additional information.
Many have business card slots.
When you have the opportunity to pick up someone's business card (they sometimes have them setting out) you should hang on to it.
A planner is a good organizational investment.
Record your stops, contact information and follow up details.
Staying organized will allow you to make the most of your time.
It would be a shame to lose out on an opportunity because you didn't call to follow up on a certain day or you got confused or overwhelmed.
Think of your planner as your mobile office and be diligent about keeping it updated.
Look back through your notes every week.
You'll appreciate your progress and efforts more when you seem them listed.
Keeping your job search efficient will be good for morale and more cost effective.
Every cent counts during tough times.
Designate an area in your day planner to keep your receipts and other expense information for tax purposes.
Get a few good interview/job hunting outfits together.
A business suit is appropriate for almost all interviews.
Most hiring managers will not fault you for being over dressed when in a business suit.
Dressing too professional won't hurt your chances of getting a job.
Being to casual or under dressed could cost you a job.
You need to be as competitive as you can.
Remember, there are lots of people looking for jobs and you need to give yourself every advantage.
If times are particularly tough you can ask a friend to borrow a suit or check local thrift stores.
Some charities specialize in work clothes for people needing help.
You can always check deep discount stores.
Buying black, navy, grey or brown will give you more versatility.
You can change up the whole look with different shirts and accessories.
Check your area for job fairs.
If your town is smaller you should check the nearest large city.
The opportunity to meet company representatives face to face could be worth the trip.
Dress your best
Bring copies of your resume' and references
Bring your notebook and calendar
Google yourself and your email address.
Chances are they will.
Again, this doesn't cost you anything but a few minutes.
If any blogs, forums, etc. show up in the search you can go to that site and change your user name for the duration of your job search.
This is especially important if you make hostile posts or participate in discussion on forums that could be political, risque' or anything other than professional.
If you don't have a professional looking profile picture available you should replace it with a scenic picture, a picture of your pet or anything else until you can take a nice photo for your profile.
More and more employers check social networking sites to look at potential employees.
Make sure your page is private or very professional.
Privatize any social networking accounts and make sure your profile picture is appropriate and flattering.
Even if they can't see your page your photo may show up.
Keep a close eye on your expenses . Looking for a job and having a job are not the same thing.
Don't charge expensive suits to a credit card you have no way of paying.
It's tough out there but you need to be smart.
Remember to keep track of all your receipts and expenses.
Many job hunting expenses and mileage are tax deductible.
Pay your cellphone and internet bills to avoid service interruptions.
A disconnected mobile number or a bounced back email will not send a good message about your attention to detail or reliability.
You may need to decrease your minutes to keep your bill under control but avoid a plan that will disconnect service for going over your minutes.
If you need to switch providers make sure you can keep your old number before you start applying for work using the old number.
Think ahead before you use your current number for any job search.
If you anticipate changing numbers in the next 3-6 months you should secure a land line or go ahead with the change.
Consider using a free web mail service (Gmail, Yahoo mail, etc.) for listing on your job search materials.
This is especially important if your current email is through your cable provider.
If you stay unemployed you'll likely need to cancel your cable.
By keeping a free email address your job search won't be affected.
Most employers won't try again tomorrow or later today.
Once you've missed the call or email the opportunity is lost.
Remember there is lots of competition with so many people looking for jobs.
Stay on the ball.
Get plenty of rest and try to keep a business schedule.
You will need to start the day early on job hunting days and you may have employers calling you in the mornings.
Resist the urge to stay up late and sleep until noon.
Don't give up.
Keep checking job sites daily.
Your dream job may get posted and filled in one week.
The few jobs available aren't staying unfilled long.
Follow up with people you've met or interviewed with.
Sometimes the follow up is what gets you the job.
Send a thank you card to any hiring manager who interviews you in person.
Again, sometimes it is the follow up and attention to service that gets you the job.
Be cautious with your spending.
Job searches are taking longer and you may need to look longer to find the right opportunity.
Cut out anything unnecessary.
Limit meals out with friends so you have the funds to attend networking luncheons instead.
Avoid buying any clothing that can't be worn for an interview or a new job unless it's an absolute need.
You'll wish you hadn't bought that ski jacket when you are scraping funds together to buy trousers for an interview.
Avoid buying any luxury items for leisure when you could be investing that money in resume' improvement, gas money for job hunting or keeping your internet service up to date.
Don't charge everything assuming you'll have a job next month to pay it off.
You should avoid charging anything on credit cards while you are unemployed.
Even though you get hired the company may also have lay offs.
Save everything you can just in case the new job isn't as permanent as you'd hoped.
When you do spend you should spend wisely.
Put money away every week towards a savings and catch up on any bills.
It may be a while before you really have expendable income once you are employed.
If you do find yourself laid off again soon you may have enough in savings to sustain your next job search.