yourself.Check out the job boards.
Job boards are big business these days, with some of the more popular ones being amongst the Internet's 20 most popular sites.
Job Boards try as hard as they can to get as many job seekers to input their resumes as possible and then they sell job ads to businesses for a fee.
The good thing about job boards is that a job seeker can often do a keyword / location search to find job opportunities in their local area and their field of employment.
To find different job boards, use a search engine with the search words "job board".
There are job listings to be found everywhere.
Listing sites are the Internet equivalent to the backpage (read 'classifieds') of your local newspaper.
Typically they'll feature not just jobs, but also house listings, buy and sell and other community postings.
Post your resume online so the jobs can search for you !
Many sites that allow you to post your resume charge companies to search for it.
This limits the ability of small companies to find your resume.
Put your resume on a site that allow your resume to be found for free.
Look for headhunters/recruiters.
Recruiters typically work by trying to find as many suitable candidates for a companies job position as possible.
A recruiter will work for a fee, paid by the employer to find a job seeker to work at that company.
Since a recruiter will place themselves between you and the company, they will often find themselves placing job seekers in positions about which they know little about.
Many job seekers won't use recruiters because they find the whole recruitment process to be frustrating and not worth their while.
However it may still be worth your while submitting your resume to a local recruiter just to see whether you get any responses.
You can find a list of recruiters for your area by simply entering a Google search.
A candidate submittal service will submit your application to a company on your behalf.
Typically, a candidate submittal service will require you to source your own job (eg.
from Job Boards, Newspapers, Company Websites ).
The candidate submittal service will then review and edit your application - then forward it on to your prospective employer.
The benefit of a candidate submittal service to the candidate is multifold.
A candidate submittal service will typically refund% of the recruitment fee back to the candidate upon successful placement with the employer.
Also, since the candidate sources their own jobs - the candidate is in control of where their resume gets sent to, and has full information with regards to the job description.
It's always worth your while to apply for some positions through the candidate submittal service - as opposed to applying directly yourself.
Not only will you get advice from career professionals, but your resume will be reviewed and improved upon, and you stand to earn a large sign-on bonus if successful.