come.Decide which style of fishing you want to experience.
Consider what kind of fish you're targeting - is it a freshwater or saltwater variety?
Many charter captains specialize in particular styles of fishing, or particular areas in the Florida waters.
You may want to choose your charter by one of the following specialties: flats and/or backcountry fishing; reef and wreck fishing; inshore and nearshore fishing; or deep sea fishing.
Some fishing charters specialize even by species, such as largemouth bass, tarpon, billfish, etc.
Determine how much you're willing to pay for the charter.
When booking a fishing charter in Florida, you pay for the use of the boat for your entire fishing party, and the services of the captain and crew.
(Only party boats charge a flat fee per person).
Smaller boats hold 2-4 anglers; while bigger boats can hold up to six persons.
Prices start at around $200-$400 to hire the smaller flats fishing boats for a 4-hour fishing trip.
For bigger boats - ones that are used for deepsea fishing - and longer fishing trips, you can expect to pay between $900-$1200 for an 8-hour fishing day.
Begin your fishing charter search.
Do you live in Florida?
Ask friends for recommendations.
Just arrived in Florida?
Check with local marinas, bait shops, or even just go down to the docks and hang out awhile, to observe charters in action as they depart and arrive.
If you're still in the planning stage of your fishing trip, ask your travel agent to recommend a hotel or resort that offers a fishing charter as part of their package.
Many hotels and some fish camps offer fishing charters as part of their packages.
Not using a travel agent?
The internet is a great way to narrow your search; just type your fishing preference in your preferred search engine (example: "tarpon fishing charters Marathon Florida") and you'll find a few to choose from.
Interview potential fishing charter captains.
It's crucial to know specific information before you commit your money to book a fishing charter.
The interview process is where the shady characters are usually revealed.
Why?
It doesn't take long to spot the genuine captain who loves what they do for a living, compared to the ones that aren't absolutely committed to their paying customer - YOU!
Below are a few tips and questions to ask potential fishing charter captains, and things to consider as you narrow your list of charter candidates down to that perfect charter.