instinct.Isolate your role as employer from you role as friend by keeping your relationship at work focused strictly on your role as work associates and by avoiding any discussion of work issues in social settings.
Understand why you are firing your friend.
Did the senior partner tell you to?
Did you catch your friend doing something unethical?
Understanding this reason may at least make you feel better about the difficult task ahead.
Evaluate the reason.
Consider the worst case scenario, that your friend comes to hate you, is it worth this?
If unethical activity is involved, this is probably a yes.
If it is not worth it, reconsider the decision to fire, or talk to your supervisor and ask him to do it himself.
Tell your friend up-front.
Be direct about it.
Beating around the bush or using humor will likely not soften the blow.
Explain the reason for termination.
Tell your friend whether it was your decision, or you were just given the dirty jobs.
Talk to your friend privately about the shortcomings of his or her work performance and ask for an explanation of why goals are not being met.
Avoid discussing personal matters during performance-related discussions.
Tell the employee that you must both set aside your personal friendship at work to serve the higher priority of making the business successful the job you are both being paid to do.
Give this employee/friend a chance to improve her or his performance by coaching or training her or him on how to overcome whatever is preventing the employee from meeting her or his goals.
Document your discussion and keep this report with your employee records.
Schedule weekly or bi-weekly reviews to discuss job performance and what it will take to meet the goals.
Tell the employee that her or his employment is in jeopardy if he or she shows no improvement in job performance after one month, and if there are no administrative obstacles preventing her or him from meeting the assigned goals.
Deal with objections by referring to the documentation of your previous conversations.
Follow up again in two weeks.
If there is still no improvement in job performance, give the employee a second warning and explain that if there is no improvement in the next two weeks, the employee will be terminated.
Explain that you value your friendship but that is not what you are paying for you are paying for job performance and, as far as you're concerned, your work situation will not interfere with your social relationship.
Continue coaching, training and removing administrative obstacles to give this employee every opportunity to improve.
Explain that you are following through on the warnings that have been provided in the past, if there is no improvement by the next meeting.
Then terminate the employee's employment with your company.
Support your friend through the termination process.
Explain severance pay, help him move his stuff, keep the security guard from bugging him, and do all the other stuff you wished your boss had done for you.