need.Walk.
If you work at an office it may not be as easy as if you work at home.
If you are going to write a message to someone who works on the same floor as you, or is a floor above or below you, write it down on paper and give it to them by hand rather than sending it by email or calling them.
The same goes for if your work at home or are a stay at home parent.
Instead of calling or text messaging a person that lives in your neighborhood, write it out on paper and stick it in their mailbox, or talk to them in person.
If you have one, take your dog out for a walk with you!
Play.
When your kids get home from school, have them do their homework immediately while you cook a hearty meal for them.
After the dishes are done, go for a walk or bike ride in you neighborhood for twenty minuets with the kids.
You can even play a game of hide-and-go-seek-tag in the back yard.
If you work in an office, take thirty minuets to play tag or bike ride with your family.
Alone time.
While your kids are at school, find some time to do some laps in your pool in your pool.
This can be as long as one hour or as short as ten minuets.
If you don't have a pool try taking an extra long walk with your dog, or taking a twenty minuet jog.
For those people stuck in an office all day, look at your schedule and find at least twenty seconds in your day.
If/when you do, get down and do ten push ups.
If you share and office with someone, do it at a time when they are not there in the room with you.
Make sure the door is closed!
Walk some more.
If you work inside of a building consider taking the stairs.
If you work on the 35 floor try taking the stairs half way because you might loose time working at your desk.
Eat Right.
When at work consider bringing a healthy brown bag lunch.
If you are having trouble figuring out what to bring, search 'Healthy Brown Bag Lunch Ideas' on Google.
When you are at the store during your lunch break instead of getting a brownie with that cup of coffee get an apple or a granola bar.
If you work at home, or you are a stay at home parent, make yourself a healthy salad or a healthy sandwich.