instructorWe normally wake up, shower, dress up, jump in a car and go straight to work without thorough planning.
If the car breaks down, we can just pull over and use our triple A s card.
In an airplane you won t be able to pull over.
Therefore prior to each flight, a good pilot must conduct good and thorough pre-departure planning.
A pilot must consider the risks before it could become a hazard.
Good pilot must assess the risks by considering the pilot, the aircraft, the environment and the external pressure prior to each flight.
The pilot needs to make sure that he is healthy enough to fly, still proficient to fly and competent to complete the flight.
You would need to make sure that the airplane performance is good enough to go on the flight.
Something to consider on that are fuel, climb performance and aircraft equipment.
In addition, you would need to consider the departure airport environment condition, the en route weather condition, destination condition and alternate destination condition.
The external pressure such as the reason why you go on that flight, departure delays etc are additional risks that you must consider.
Once your preflight planning and considerations are complete, then it s time to inspect the airplane for takeoff.
Once the preflight planning is complete and the inspection of the aircraft is done then it s time to start the engine and go.
In flight, you must have the ability to make good sound judgment based on the information that you have.
This is why thorough preflight planning will help.
Often time good sound judgment requires the ability to use common sense.
Good pilot must also have the ability to maintain situational awareness in flight.
Situational Awareness is the ability to maintain a good perception of your surroundings through the use of all of your senses.
Basically it s do you know where you are and what you are doing as you are flying along?
Without good decision making and positive situational awareness, then the risks may become hazards as you are continuing to follow the chain of event that will lead to a disaster.
The ability to make good decision and maintain situational awareness is crucial as a pilot.
However, in addition, you will need good stick and rudder skill to fly an airplane.
Some people may not remember how to do a parallel parking since they passed their driving test a while ago.
Now they might be ok with that especially when they just avoid having to do a parallel parking.
However to become pilot you must be able to perform required maneuvers and maintain that proficiency over time.
You would need to be able to watch and demonstrate the maneuvers after the instructor has demonstrated them to you.
You also need to be able to retain that skill for the next lesson.
If the instructor demonstrate a maneuver, you need to be able to demonstrate the maneuver afterward.
Now just like anything else, you ll learn it through memory, understanding, application and correlation.
So if an instructor demonstrate a maneuver, over time, are you able to demonstrate it on your own?
If yes, then you got it!
Keep in mind that some folks will take longer time and some take less time to be able to demonstrate the maneuvers.
That is okay!
Whether you are flying an airplane, driving a car or operate a machine, good moral standard must be in placed.
Good pilot must respect his ability to fly an airplane and the airplane performance.
You must have a good head on your shoulder.
So leave the hazardous attitudes at home when you operate any machine, be it a car or airplane.
So whether you are an aviation enthusiast or you would like to learn how to fly an airplane, remember that you ll need to be able to make good sound judgment, maintain situational awareness, good stick and rudder skill and good moral standards.
The above message is based on my own personal opinion and experience as a pilot and as a flight instructor.
It is not the only guidance that you would need to fly.
It is just my basic summary of how to fly an airplane.
There are additional information that you would need to operate an aircraft safely.
But I hope that it provides to you a good basic understanding of how to fly an airplane.
So good luck and fly safe!