appropriate.If this is your first time at a particular church, or any church for that matter, recognize that you are a guest and new to this.
It is normal to not do everything right the first or the second time in a new church.
Many Christian services are divided into two main components.
The first part of the service has to do with "the word," in other words the Bible.
The second part of the service has to do with "the table," and usually involves Eucharist (communion).
Identifying these two major divisions in a service can be very helpful if you feel completely lost.
In churches who do not celebrate communion, it is just "the word" part that you will experience most Sundays.
Get to church 5-10 minutes early and sit quietly in the pew looking over the bulletin, if possible.
Make special note of which books are used by this church (the Bible, a hymn book or two, any extra books, bulletin inserts).
Look around and find all of the extra books or materials used during the service so that you can quickly grab them later.
You can even mark the first couple hymns in the hymnal for easy flipping later.
Note any special instructions about standing or kneeling.
Sometimes these are hard to catch as they are written in italics or boldface without clear directions.
Identify how this church marks what the congregation is supposed to do.
If the only variation in movement is standing or sitting, some churches will only have an asterisk or other symbol beside those items in the service during which the congregation stands.
It might be good to ask another person sitting close if it is not clear when you are supposed to stand, kneel or walk around the church.
Note that most of the standing and kneeling comes as a response to something in the service.
It might be a response to a reading or a prayer.
Typically, the order is for someone at the front to do something and then for the congregation to respond to what has been done.
Note that if communion/eucharist is being served, carefully read the bulletin or ask someone close by how exactly it works in this church.
Should you choose to go up during communion, ask if they encourage a new person to do that and exactly how it would be done.
Some churches only allow baptized persons or members to receive communion.
If this is the case, you can hang back in the pew or you can walk up with everyone and indicate that you would like a blessing.
You can usually do this by crossing your arms in front of your chest instead of putting your hands out, palms up, in front.
Following customary behavior takes practice.
Attending a couple of times at the same church will make you feel like a pro.
Unfortunately, every church is different so trial and error is typically the way to know how to behave in a particular church.