concern).Make CERTAIN that you want to apply to business school.
There are two reasons that you want to be certain before you start the process.
First, the application process (not to mention the two years of school afterwards) is time-consuming and expensive.
If you are not certain whether you want to go to business school, you can waste a lot of unnecessary time and money in the process.
Secondly, business schools' extensive examination of a candidate's credentials will expose a lack of interest if it exists.
Translation: if you're unsure about going to business school, you will not get in.
Set aside the proper amount of time.
This will vary from candidate to candidate, but a safe recommendation is 3-6 months.
Be prepared to fill your evenings with studying for the GMAT, writing essays, etc.
Set aside the proper amount of money.
Aside from application costs ($100-$200 each application), there are several things that you can do in the process to help you out.
These things cost money.
If you are not eligible for financial aid, you are about to spend several thousand dollars over the next two years pursuing your MBA.
I recommend spending some money in the application process to ensure that you get into the program you want.
Research the schools to which you wish to apply.
This is possibly the most important part of the process.
Everyone would like to get into Harvard or Wharton.
But, in reality, neither of those schools may be the best fit for you.
Each program focuses on different parts of business and, therefore, stresses different curriculum and learning environments.
Business Week has some excellent rankings of different programs.
Also, each program's website provides invaluable information about the characteristics unique to that program.
Make sure that you only consider programs that you think will fit your personality and will best facilitate your career goals.
Once you've got a list of 5-10 programs that interest you, narrow that list further by getting more specific information.
All programs are eager to educate prospective students.
Schools host myriad information sessions and even encourage student visits.
Additionally, many schools make their current students available to prospects.
Attending open-house information sessions and talking to current students should help you narrow your list down to an appropriate number, 2-6 is a generally a good number.
Once you've narrowed down the programs to which you wish to apply, create accounts on the respective schools' websites so that you can begin your online applications.
Make sure that you are aware of the due dates for each application.
Thoroughly examine each of the applications to get an idea of the differences in each.
These tasks vary from application to application but there is usually a lot of overlap.
You should notice that they ask (generally) about three things: personal experience, professional experience, and community involvement.
If you know that you will be perceived as "weak" in one or more of these areas, you should immediately start strengthening these areas (i.e. take a class to show better grades than those you received in college, perform community service) Additionally, one of the common things that all business schools ask is for you to take the GMAT.
There are different opinions about when one should take the GMAT.
Since the score is valid for 5 years, I recommend a candidate take the GMAT as one of the first steps in the process.
So....
Take the GMAT
Once you've taken the GMAT, you should focus your attention on your applications.
Applications basically consist of personal and professional experience as well as community involvement.
It is very important that each application be tailored to the school to which you are applying.
Furthermore, for each application, it is important to create and support a "theme" which should be unique for each application.
To this end, there are several Graduate Admissions Consultants whose services are invaluable.
These folks are expensive but can really help you polish your applications.
A simple Google search should yield some excellent results.
Resume.
There are myriad sites that outline how to write a solid resume.
Make sure that your resume is solid.
Essays.
Different schools will ask different essay questions.
If you have an application with an earlier deadline date, start with that one first.
Otherwise, start with the application that has the GREATEST NUMBER of essay questions.
In writing your essays, you will (inevitably) re-use content.
By finishing the essays for your most complex application, you will have the most content to re-use.
With the first set of essays, don't be afraid to go through multiple drafts to hone your writing (people who use Admissions Consultants report having written 10 "versions" before arriving at a final draft).
Recommendations.
It is very important to identify people that you've worked with.
Furthermore, you want to be certain that the recommendations echo the things you've said in your application.
To that end, while you should NEVER write recommendations for your recommenders, you might want to provide them with an outline for the questions asked in the recommendation form.
Additionally, it is much more valuable to have a recommendation that answers the specific questions posed by each program rather than a generic recommendation letter that you send to all programs.
For this reason, it is nice to outline areas of "re-use" in your outlines so that recommenders may re-use things they've previously written.