happened.Consider why it is you broke up in the first place.
Do you just want him back just because you feel that you can't have him?
Or maybe you just like the idea of having a boyfriend?
Or you really do like him?
Were one (or both) of you abusive, controlling, mean, or possessive?
Did one (or both) cheat?
If any of these things happened, you'll want to think long and hard about going back to that kind of relationship.
Be the person he fell in love with.
He was attracted to you because he felt good with you, and you were fulfilling his emotional needs.
How have you changed?
Correct bad habits and mistakes, if any.
Be positive around him.
Laugh and smile.
Always stay positive to feel good about yourself and make friends around you.
The first thing that you say to your ex boyfriend is extremely important.
If you say the wrong words, you will lose the chance to get your ex boyfriend back.
Do not respond to your ex request for a breakup by crying and begging him to come back.
This will not work.
You are just going to make him feel more irritated and drive him further away.
You need to understand that even though he initiates the breakup, there is a good chance that he still harbors good feelings for you.
Use the past to your advantage.
If he's ever complimented your outfit, wear it again.
Or, share a light-hearted memory with him.
If you have a chance to meet him, do it at a familiar place you used to hang out together.
Listen carefully to his choice of words.
If he ever uses an unusual or uncommon word, casually slip it into the conversation again.
This subconsciously tells him that he and you are similar due to exclusive and similar ways of talking.
Casually ask if he'd like to do something non-committal, like have a drink with friends, play miniature golf, play tennis, etc. Something friends and first dates alike can do.
And whatever it is, keep it fun.
Skip out on the serious talks for now.
You'll have plenty of time to talk about that later.
That's very threatening to a lot of guys.
If he initiates it, follow his lead.
But don't go heavy.
Let him know you were thinking about him.
Remember that one time you two went to dinner at that great new restaurant and had a fabulous time?
Leave him a short email telling him you ate there recently and thought of him.
And, by the way, how is he doing?
This is a non-threatening way to have a light conversation, and also, a small request for a reply back.
Invite him to talk to you.
Express regret things weren't working out between you and ask if you can talk about it now that you have some perspective.
Ask if what went wrong was related to what you've been working on.
Your ex may have a different perspective!
Pay a little attention to your appearance if you have been neglecting yourself in that department.
If you just broke up (less than a couple weeks) completely ignore him.
He will call you if he likes you.
If he doesn't then nothing you say or wear will change that.
(This works unless you are dealing with a guy that thinks that if you aren't coming after him, you don't care.
Sometimes, ignoring him makes him feel like you are perfectly fine without him and are moving on, which is the exact opposite of what you want when you are trying to get back with your man. Be sure you know exactly what type of guy you are dealing with when trying to get him back.)
Remember, no situation is hopeless.
Every day, couples get back together regardless of the situation.
Agree with the break-up . The most important thing you can do is agree with the break-up because as long as you're fighting against his decision you won't be able to work towards getting him back.
What you resist, persists!