care.Make sure to shower every morning or night.
People like people who smell good.
Think about the last time you exercised and didn't shower.
It doesn't feel very good, does it?
Shower everyday, but do not wash your hair every day.
this will cause your hair to become brittle and dry, even if you do use a conitioner.
Wash your body, though.
Pick a good Shampoo/Conditioner set.
Ask hair stylists, beauty store employees, or friends with your same type of hair (thick/thin, curly/wavy/straight) to find something ideal for your hair.
on't spend to much money on salon brands, though, they really arent that much different than store brands.
Brush your teeth.
There is nothing worse than plaque-y teeth and bad breath.
Consider using a liquid mouth wash. Carry around breath mints an sugar-free gum to refresh your breath between meals
Brush your hair with a paddle brush.
Start at the bottom of your locks, and work your way up.
If you have curly hair, use a pick.
I know they look as if they are for afros' but honestly they are great for getting tangles out and reucing frizz.
Keep neat nails.
Wash under them, clip them, and file them about every week.
Put on clear nail polish for a natural look, or paint on a subtle pink shimmer polish.
It will make you look neat and well groomed.
Wash EVERY time yoiu go to the bathroom.
You will not beleive how many people don't.
ugghh!
Exfoliate.
It gets rid of dead skin cells, and can get rid of whiteheads on the spot.
It reduces your acne, which is a wonderful bonus.
Only use once a week though, becasue it could irritate your acne.
Kepp a face regimen.
Use a medicated acne wash if you need it, but get advice from your nearest shoppers beauty counter.
Tone, moizterize, mattify.
Acne can be the most horrible thing in the world, but it can be reuced through a airtight face regimen.
Shave your legs and armpits.
It is hygienic and a gives a clean look.
If you hate shaving, try waxing with a honey and brown sugar mix.
It only sticks to your hair , so it causes less pain.
Work on your lips.
Wearing lip balm keeps them soft and hydrated.
Gently brushing your lips with a toothbrush is like exfoliating your lips and leaves a clean "canvas" for your balm, clear gloss or subtle lipstick.
Wear deodorant ! No one likes a smelly nelly.
Drink enough water ! Drinking water keeps your skin softer and makes acne less likely.
Also, drinking a glass of water before every meal can be a healthy way to lose weight, because it takes the edge off your appetite.
Smile.
It makes other people smile, and makes you look like a beautiful and confident person.
If your self concience about your teeth, try invisiline, or try whitening strips =D
Wear clean, non-wrinkled clothes.
No one likes it if you wear wrinkled, smelly clothes.
Bring your own style into it, to make it more fun.
Wear a cool set of bangles, or a cute belt.
Anything goes!