you.Establish for sure that you don't have a date.
If you think someone may still ask you or that you may still ask somebody to go as your date, make sure to find out definitely before following the rest of these steps.
You don't want to get in the Single mindset and then find out you have a date to prepare for.
Simple, but gorgeous
Get your wardrobe together.
Guys, hit the thrift stores and look for something cool; there's usually something worth checking out, i.e. plaid blazers or pants.
Get something tasteful, but not tacky...don't want to look clown-ish.
Crack open a fresh pair of sneakers, preferably Vans checkerboards or black Converse hi-tops.
A hat usually doesn't hurt.
Girls, same general concept if you're a "bohemian" chick, but otherwise a formal-esque dress is more acceptable.
Though depending on your usual crowd, an off-beat ensemble can look really cool on the right girl.
Spend the early part of the Big Day doing something fun and relaxing (a day of paintball with the boys can be a good thing to get enthusiastic about the evening).
This works equally well for guys and girls, as the latter should remember that if there is no date, worrying about hair is totally optional; nobody important is going to make a stink about your hair not being perfect.
Just think about all the time everyone else is wasting trying to get things together at the last minute.
Enjoy your freedom with a smile.
Make your entrance with confidence.
Walk in like you own the place and talk to everybody you know on the way in.
A pair of aviator sunglasses (preferably mirror finish) or some other bit of flair will make you look cool and nonchalant.
Move around between people and make smalltalk.
Once inside, don't become a wallflower; you've come too far to quit now!
There's no way you're the only dateless person in the room; head for the dance floor and jump into the action, or scope out a wallflower of the opposite sex (it could be a friend, a jilted date of someone else, or even a stranger if you feel lucky) and just ask to dance.
It's much easier to ask in a room with loud music blasting.
A simple outstretched hand and a raised eyebrow can do the trick if you're lucky.