date.Understand the assignment.
Ask questions until you are sure you understand what is expected of you.
Ask your boss, your colleagues, or whoever sent you the assignment.
Identify the purpose of the writing.
Will it inform, record, or persuade?
Is it to size up a problem and chart a course, or is it a review of work already done?
Decide what kind of document to write.
How formal should it be?
Can it be a quick email?
Is it a large report or manual?
Is it somewhere in between?
Don't worry about length.
They really did stop counting words and pages back in school.
Focus on communicating what you need to say.
Identify your audience.
Are you writing for colleagues?
Managers?
Customers?
Suppliers?
Don't forget, especially with email, that your distribution may quickly expand beyond the original recipients.
Gather the information that you will need to include in your document.
Talk to coworkers, managers, and anybody else that you need to consult, whether in a formal meeting or not.
If it's appropriate to involve writers on the team, such as a technical publications group, inform them.
Include your own expertise.
If you were asked to write about it, it is probably because you know more about it than others.
Do research if the topic requires it.
Make notes as you go.
These can be in any form that you want.
Don't worry if what you write now isn't neat.
Just get it written down and recorded.
Put the notes in order, if it will help you to write, but write the notes before you organize them.
Write a rough draft.
At this stage, focus on writing something, whether it is organized or not.
If you find yourself missing information, mark it clearly and move on.
Rewrite and edit your work.
For a smaller project, this may mean just spell-checking and a quick rereading before hitting send.
Fill in missing information.
Organize your document.
Add clear headings to divide a longer document into smaller sections.
Ask others to review your work, as appropriate.
Put a clear, succinct summary right at the top.
Unlike mystery novels, you do not want your audience in suspense.
Like an abstract in an academic paper, the executive summary should include the major points, recommendations, and conclusions.
Keep your audience in mind as you write the summary.
Some busy readers may read only the summary.
Others may use the summary to decide whether to read more.
Scale the summary to the document.
For an email, a clear, specific subject line will suffice.
For a lengthy report or manual, a few introductory paragraphs might serve as the summary.
Make sure your document and summary agree and that the document supports your conclusions.
Get input.
Ask colleagues to review your work.
If this was a small assignment for a small audience, send it in and get feedback for next time.