addressBuy your tickets as early as possible to avoid a long wait for tickets.
You can buy packages that include tickets and hotel rates on Disneyland.com.
Prices at Disneyland are high, so consider how many times you will go to Disneyland in the next year.
If it's more than two or three, consider buying a year long pass.
There are 4 kinds of Annual Pass (In order of the cheapest): Southern California Select (You have to live in Southern California and there are 175 days you can go to Disneyland), Southern California Pass (You have to live in Southern California and there are 220 days you can attend), Deluxe Annual Pass (Available to all guests, 315 days you can attend), and Premium Annual Pass (Available to all guest).
Show up to the park as early as possible.
Hours are subject to change so look it up beforehand.
With parking and getting to the front gate, allow 30-40 minutes.
The front gate opens half an hour before the actual park opens, so take this time to look around in the shops.
If it is early enough in the day, you may be able to arrange an express pick-up of your souvenirs at the front of the park when your day is over.
Ask a cast member at the shop in question about express pick-up and they will be happy to assist you.
Walk as fast as you can to the most popular rides, once the park opens(Indiana Jones, Splash Mountain, Space Mountain, Matterhorn, and Thunder Mountain Railroad), because later in the day these rides will have incredibly long lines.
The "dark rides" in Fantasyland are very slow loaders and do not offer Fast Passes so it is a good idea to visit them first.
Disney now has a FASTPASS option for their most popular attractions, including the ones listed above.
Just insert your ticket or pass into the machine (located near the ride, just ask a cast member) and out will pop out a ticket with a time.
This time, usually an hour away, is the time you may return to the ride and cut far ahead of the line.
It's sort of a placeholder - you can go do other things, instead of waiting in the line.
Eat meals earlier than usual, or after the mad lunch rush of 11am-2pm and the equally mad dinner rush between 6 :30-8:00pm, to avoid lines and so you can go on rides while everyone else is eating.