sick.WaterMulti-vitaminYogurtSave water.
Check and fix any water leaks.
Install water-saving devices on your faucets and toilets.
Don't wash dishes with the water running continuously.
Turn off washing machine's water supply to prevent leaks.
Replace old toilets with new ones that use a lot less water.
Install a low-flow shower head.
Wash and dry only full loads of laundry and dishes.
Create Less Trash
Buy products that you can reuse.
Maintain and repair durable products instead of buying new ones.
Avoid products with several layers of packaging when only one is sufficient.
About% of what we throw away is packaging.
Reuse items like bags and containers when possible.
Use reusable plates and utensils instead of disposable ones.Use reusable containers to store food instead of aluminum foil and cling wrap.
Buy rechargeable batteries for devices used frequently.
Buy used furniture - there is a surplus of it, and it is much cheaper than new furniture.
Reduce Toxicity
Learn about alternatives to household cleaning items that do not use hazardous chemicals.
Review labels of household cleaners you use.
Consider alternatives like baking soda, scouring pads, water or a little more elbow grease.
When no good alternatives exist to a toxic item, find the least amount required for an effective, sanitary result
If you have an older home, have paint in your home tested for lead.
If you have lead-based paint, cover it with wall paper or other material instead of sanding it or burning it off.
Use traps instead of rat and mouse poisons and insect killers.
Have your home tested for radon.
Use cedar chips or aromatic herbs instead of mothballs.
Use an electric lawn- mower instead of a gas-powered one.
Create a wildlife habitat in your yard.
Put leaves in a compost heap instead of burning them or throwing them away.
Yard debris too large for your compost bin should be taken to a yard-debris recycler.
Copy and print on both sides of paper.
Reuse items like envelopes, folders and paper clips.
Use e-mail instead of paper correspondence.
Use recycled paper.
Encourage your school and/or company to print documents with soy-based inks, which are less toxic.
Use a ceramic coffee mug instead of a disposable cup.
Protect Our Air
Shut off electrical equipment in the evening when you leave work.
Report smoking vehicles to your local air agency
Avoid slow-burning, smoldering fires.
They produce the largest amount of pollution.
Use solar power for home and water heating.
Purchase radial tires and keep them properly inflated for your vehicle.
Paint with brushes or rollers instead of using spray paints to minimize harmful emissions.
If you use a wood stove, use one sold after.
They are required to meet federal emissions standards and are more efficient and cleaner burning.
Walk or ride your bike instead of driving, whenever possible.
Join a carpool or vanpool to get to work.
If you have central air conditioning, do not close vents in unused rooms.
Lower the thermostat on your water heater to.
Turn down or shut off your water heater when you will be away for extended periods.
Turn off unneeded lights even when leaving a room for a short time.
Set your refrigerator temperature atto 38 and your freezer at 0 to 5.
When using an oven, minimize door opening while it is in use; it reduces oven temperature byto 30 every time you open the door.
Clean the lint filter in your dryer after every load so that it uses less energy.
Wash clothes with warm or cold water instead of hot.
Use a microwave when- ever you can instead of a conventional oven or stove.
Turn off lights, computers and other appliances when not in use.
Use compact fluorescent light bulbs to save money and energy.
Plant trees to shade your home.
Replace old windows with energy efficient ones.
Keep your thermostat higher in summer and lower in winter when you are away.
Insulate your home as best as you can.