wet.Do research and reading.
It is important that you understand the disorder and how it impacts the sufferer.
The more that you understand, the easier it will be to help and to forgive the moments when you feel completely distanced from your loved one.
Also try to learn about what caused your loved one to develop dissociative amnesia.
Typical causes include involvement in a disaster in which they witnessed death or were near death, an abusive childhood, major life stresses, time spent in a combat zone, involvement in an accident, etc. [2] [3] Unless you were also present, you won't be able to completely grasp what they went through but it will help you to understand the depth of their pain.
Get your loved one to quality treatment.
Help your loved one find a reputable health professional whom you trust and know that your loved one is comfortable with.
Take on the role of talking to other family members.
Your loved one isn't in a good place to be able to explain what is happening, and may instead simply withdraw, get angry, or refuse to speak.
Help your family members to realize:
This memory loss is more than mere forgetfulness and impacts daily living.
That symptoms such as inability to recall information, depression, anxiety, and confusion are part of this condition.
This is not a case of malingering.
Ask family members not to make snide comments or to express anguish about the inability of your loved one to remember things.
Help your loved one to choose appropriate treatment options.
There will be a range of options available but they will all have varying degrees of effectiveness.
You can play a key role in observing how your loved one is responding to treatment from the home life perspective, and give feedback to the health professionals.
Treatment options might include: [4]
Psychotherapy
Cognitive therapy
Medication
Family therapy (this is teaching the family about the disorder and ways that the family can help the patient)
Creative therapies
Clinical hypnosis - Eriksonian hypnotherapy is recommended.
Try to maintain the home life to enable independence and quality of life.
Get practical help as needed to help the person live normally.
Provide a secure, caring environment.
Expect distress from the patient at times over the memory loss and be ready to reassure.
Protect the patient from self-harm or neglect.
Ensure as much family and friend contact as possible.
Find ways to help the patient feel happy and useful.