advice.Understand what a panic attack is. A panic attack is a sudden attack of extreme terror, fear or apprehension, even though there's no actual danger present.
[1] It can occur without warning and for no obvious reason.
The symptoms are listed under the tips sections of this article.
In extreme cases, the symptoms may be accompanied by an acute fear of dying.
Although they are quite distressing, panic attacks are not usually life-threatening and can last from 5 - 20 minutes.
It is important to note that the signs and symptoms of a panic attack can be similar to those of a heart attack.
Do keep this in mind.
Although, most panic attacks are not fatal,if a panic attack is because of an under-laying reason such as Tachycardia or Arrythmia, or asthma, and/or the the physiological processes of the autonomic nervous system not in harmony then death could occur.
Uncontrolled Tachycardia can lead to death.
Panic attacks arouse the body to a peak level of excitement which makes the person feel not in control of him or her self and this is due to the fact that the mind is preparing for a false fight or flight mode.
In every case the body is in a state of high alert and the body takes over to help the person face or run from the perceived danger real or not.
The hormones cortisol and adrenaline are released from the adreanal glands into the blood stream and away the process begins which is the heart of a panic attack.
The body can respond in a split second, that's how fast the mind works and does so at times when the person is not in any danger, however the mind can not distinguish the difference from a real danger then one that is ones mind.
If you believe it then it is real as far as your mind is concerned.
So again, panic as bad as it may feel or seem will not kill a human.
There have been no one on record to die from a panic attack that anyone knows of in the USA or anywhere in the world.
Now that should ease the mind.
If this is the first time the person has had something like this, seek emergency medical attention.
When in doubt, it is always best to seek immediate medical attention.
If the person has diabetes, asthma or other medical problems, seek medical help.
Find out the cause of the attack.
Talk to the person and determine if he or she is having a panic attack and not another kind of medical emergency (such as a heart or asthma attack) which would require immediate medical attention.
Establish if there is a cause for the fear and either try to remove it or consider taking the person away from the source of distress to a quiet area.
Sometimes a person with panic disorder will already have techniques or medication which they know will help them get through the attack, so ask them if there is anything you can do.
Speak to them in a reassuring but firm manner.
Be prepared for the possibility of the person having an intense desire to escape.
Try and get them to calm down (and in order to do this, you need to remain calm yourself).
Ask the person to remain still, but never grab, hold, or even gently restrain them; if they want to move around, suggest that they stretch, do jumping jacks, or go with you for a brisk walk.
If they're at their home, suggest organizing the closet or other vigorous cleaning up as an activity.
With their body keyed for fight or flight, directing the energy toward physical objects and a finite, constructive task can help them deal with the physiological effects.
Also the actual accomplishment may change their mood, while a different activity to focus on may help break the anxiety - especially if the anxiety is over a social or emotional situation where panic and excitement would not help and might make things a lot worse.
[2]
Do not dismiss their fears in any way by saying things like "there's nothing to worry about" or "it's all in your mind" or "you're overreacting".
The fear is very real to them at that moment, and the best you can do is help them cope - minimizing or dismissing the fear in any way can make the panic attack worse.
Just say "it's OK" and move on to breathing.
Emotional threats read as life and death threats to the body.
That's why it's important to take their fears seriously.
If their fears are not grounded in reality and they're reacting to the past, providing some specific reality checks can help.
"This is Don we're talking about, he never blows up in people's faces over mistakes the way Fred used to.
He'll just react the way he always does and probably help.
It'll be over soon and he won't see this as a big deal."
Asking the question in a calm and neutral way "Are you reacting to what's going on right now or to something in the past?" may help the panic attack victim organize his or her thoughts to recognize flashbacks versus immediate danger signals.
Listen and accept whatever answer is given - sometimes people who have been in abusive situations before have very strong reactions to real warning signs.
Asking questions and letting them sort out what they're responding to is the best way to support them.
Stay calm and don't pressure the person.
This is not the time to force the person to come up with answers or to do things that will make their anxiety worse.
Minimize the stress levels by being a calming influence and let them get into a relaxed state.
Don't insist they figure out what caused their attack as this will just make it worse.
Listen supportively if they spontaneously try to sort out what it is they're reacting to.
Don't judge, just listen and let them talk.
Encourage them to try to control breathing . Regaining control of their breathing will help eliminate the symptoms and will help calm them down.
Many people take short, rapid breaths when they're panicking, and some people hold their breath.
This reduces the oxygen intake which will cause the heart to race.
Use one of the following techniques to help bring their breathing back to normal:
Try counting breaths.
One way of helping them to do this is to ask the person to breathe in and out on your count.
Begin by counting aloud, encouraging the person to breath in for 2 and then out for 2, gradually increase the count to 4 and then 6 if possible until their breathing has slowed down and is regulated.
Get them to breathe into a paper bag.
If the person is receptive, offer a paper bag (see warnings) , but be aware that for some people, the paper bag itself may be a trigger of fear, especially if they've had negative experiences with being pushed into it during previous panic attacks.
[] Also, since this is done to prevent hyperventilation, it may not be necessary if you're dealing with someone who holds their breath or slows their breathing when they panic.
If it is necessary, however, this should be done by alternating around 10 breaths into and out of the bag, followed by breathing without a bag for 15 seconds.
It is important not to overdo the bag breathing in case carbon dioxide levels rise too high and oxygen levels fall too low, causing other more serious medical problems.
Get them to breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth, making the exhale in a blowing fashion like blowing up a balloon.
Do this with them.
Keep them cool.
Many panic attacks can be accompanied by sensations of warmth, especially around the neck and face.
A cold object, ideally a wet washcloth can often help minimize this symptom and aide in reducing the severity of the attack.
Don t leave them alone.
Stay with them until they have recovered from the attack.
Never leave someone who is struggling to breathe.
A person with a panic attack may seem like they're being unfriendly or rude, but understand what they are going through and wait until they're back to normal.
Ask them what has worked in the past, and if and when they have taken their meds.
Remember that the feelings are real and that their thoughts may be racing.
Reassure them that you will get them help, do not leave them alone but do not hesitate to seek immediate medical attention including an ambulance.
They may be acting on feelings, but they can act in ways that put the person in immediate risk of serious harm.