bedding.Prepare Yourself.
Realize that you care about your child's future more than anyone.
Therefore, you are uniquely qualified for the role of homeschooling parent.
Homeschooling is a big responsibility, but if you mold it to your family lifestyle it works well and doesn't mean you, as a parent, have no other life outside of homeschooling your children.
Determine Your Homeschool Teaching Style.
Examine your own intentions and motivations.
Why do you want to homeschool?
What do you consider a good education?
What do you believe about children, teaching, and learning?
How do your children seem to learn best?
These questions can help you determine what approach to take, and help you create a learning environment that will be best for you and your children.
Learn about the different homeschool methods, such as
unschooling ,
Diane Lockman's authentic classical trivium (The Classical Scholar)
unit studies,
Charlotte Mason s methodology,
Montessori or Waldorf methods, and
eclectic blends of different styles.
Complete Online curriculum package like Global Student Network
Private Online school like International Virtual Learning Academy
Plan Your Curriculum.
The enormous volume of material and methods that are available can be very overwhelming for a new homeschoooling parent.
Identifying your approach will help narrow things down.
(For example, unschoolers usually have a wide variety of resources for their children to experience, but no formal curriculum.
Authentic classical education involves teaching reading, thinking, and speaking to substantial mastery.
There are many resources to help you navigate through the maze of ideas.
Libraries and bookstores have books on homeschooling methods, experiences, and proven curricula.
The internet offers a never-ending source of information as well: basic information on various subjects, online curriculum and supply ordering, articles about methodologies, support groups, and public school curricula.
The internet even has free lessons on most subjects from teachers, other homeschoolers, and even television stations.
Research, read, and plan what you want to teach and how.
Art
Sciences (Biology, Physics, Chemistry)
Languages
Music
Mathematics
History
Geography
Look for local support.
You can find local groups that meet regularly, organizations that put on periodic seminars or conventions, or even online groups that swap ideas and resources on it.
Many groups set up co-op classes - taught by other parents - in a variety of subjects.
If you start to feel overwhelmed, frustrated, or all alone in your family's educational pursuits, a support group can offer advice or just a reassuring acknowledgment from other parents that you are not alone.
They are also an invaluable resource for tips on how to comply with the homeschooling laws in your area.
Establish Your Homeschool Legally.
Learn what is required to homeschool legally where you live, then do what is necessary to work within that structure.
Make sure you get a copy of the actual laws involved as well as discovering the current legal interpretation of those laws.
Since homeschoolers have a personal investment in ensuring they understand the homeschooling laws correctly, local support groups are often the best resource to steer you to the most accurate legal information in your area.
Be advised that the legal requirements for homeschoolers vary by country, state, and even sometimes by school district, so a bit of research will be required.
HSLDA and AtoZ Home s Cool provide useful guides to what it means to have a legal homeschool (see external links.)
Prepare Your Children.
Explain to them what is going to happen in the months to come - including how daily life will be changing - for them and the family.
To older children, make clear that though they may be leaving their school, it doesn't mean they are leaving their education or their friends.
Ask them what they would be interested in studying (for example, if one loves star gazing, get a telescope and study astronomy).
Be sure to get them excited.
Homeschooling is fun!
Inform Extended Family.
Others in your family who care about you and your children can be helpful and give great support to your homeschooling efforts - or they can be heartbreaking critics.
Plan how you will tell them what you are planning to do, listen to their responses, and answer questions and concerns they may have.
Help them understand that you are both prepared and determined, and don't let any negative attitudes get you down.
They care, and over time as your children show success in homeschool, they very well may come around and be your greatest supporters.
Allow time to adjust to change with older children.
Often children who leave the standard educational system for homeschool need some time to adjust.
Instead of immediately jumping into "school at home" you may want to do unstructured activities and then slowly work into your routine.
Determine how much "recovery time" is needed for your particular child, then work with them to create a different and more enjoyable learning environment.
Studying with flashcards
Gather Supplies.
Homeschooling supplies, like everything else in homeschooling, vary greatly by teaching method.
You can order textbooks, boxed curriculum, and learning tools online or at homeschooling curriculum and supply sales.
For cheaper alternatives, many homeschoolers use libraries, used book stores, curriculum swaps, thrift stores, and garage sales.
Also, a back-to-school-sale at a local discount store or office supply store is the perfect place to get some of the basic school supplies like pens, notebooks and glue.
Plan Your Day.
If you choose to have a more formal homeschool environment, you can prepare by gathering your lesson plans, materials, and textbooks together - or even by setting-up a room in your house for studies and activites.
A different approach might mean your teaching preparation involves setting up field trips for the rest of the year in every subject, placing learning objects around your home, or simply getting yourself into a mindset of using every day as a learning opportunity with no set plans or textbooks.
However you choose to homeschool, it can only be helped by planning and preparing as much as you can before you start.
Radishes from a study garden
Look for hands-on activities.
Everyone benefits from seeing things firsthand.
Some activities that can be educational as well as easy to do are: gardening, cooking, sewing, composting, science projects, hiking, fixing the house, caring for pets, and taking apart broken appliances (just make sure there are no lasers or dangerous electronic components still active).
Your children will learn different things depending on their ages, but everyone will come away better-educated.
Keep a portfolio of each child's work.
Thick, three-ringed binders with tab separators for each student are an excellent way to keep track of school work, along with whatever may be required from a legal standpoint.
Label each tab with whatever subjects you are studying (for example: Math, Spelling, Language Arts, History, Biology, Spanish).
After your child has completed a page under that subject, punch holes (using a three-ring hole punch) and snap the page into the proper section of their book.
Remember to date each page or it will be a big jigsaw puzzle to figure out later.
This is most useful when your child may be thinking of university study, as they often require portfolios of work from homeschoolers.
Periodically evaluate your progress.
Progress evaluation happens naturally through the one-on-one process of homeschooling, although in some areas the law requires periodic formal testing or evaluation of homeschoolers.
Personal evaluation, however, should not only consider how your child is doing academically, but also how the process is working for everyone in the family.
If the teaching methods are a poor match with your child s learning styles, if the curriculum is too structured or not structured enough, or if the process of homeschooling seems to be making things worse rather than better, then it s time for a change.
Fortunately, change is something you can do fairly quickly with just a little research.
If you feel uncomfortable with your level of knowledge on the subject, there are standardized progress tests (such as Fcat) that your child can take and then have the scores mailed to you, and you can find many other tests to order or take online.
Go With Your Gut.
Trust your knowledge and instincts regarding your own children.
You are not only the one ultimately responsible for guiding your children's education, but you are often the one person best able to recognize what they do or do not need.
Turn to evaluations and insights from others to help guide you, but trust your own instincts about what your children need to learn and do in their educational progress.