trainingUnless you actually intend to do so, choose a time when you are not too sleepy or tired, so that you are not likely to doze off.
Dark
Find a quiet place with subdued lighting , where you are not likely to be disturbed for at least half an hour.
Turn off your cell phone or pager, if you have one, and take the telephone off the hook or put it on answer mode with the ringer turned off.
Sit down or lie down in a position which will enable you to relax deeply.
If you should find yourself becoming uncomfortable during the session, it should not disturb you to gently adjust your position in order to keep yourself as comfortable as possible..
Guide yourself through the elements of the Best Me Technique.
After reading over the following script a couple of times to get the idea, go through the help you relax as you go through the elements of the Best Me Technique in your mind, but not everyone responds equally well to the same images.
Regardless of the words and images you actually use (see suggestions  : Feel the cool breeze upon your skin, and savor the freshness of the pure, country air.
Listen to the twitter of the birds in the distance, and the sound of the water quietly splashing against the rocks you gently melt into the blanket, and that warm, golden glow of the sunlight relaxes you completely from head to toe.
Thoughts and images: It s so calm, and so peaceful there on the meadow with birds and bees busy at their work, that all you want to do is keep drifting, and dreaming, and floating on, and on.
Then, you can just drift on into, peaceful, state of self-hypnosis by silently counting backwards from ten to one, repeating in time with your breathing after each count: "Sinking down, and shutting down, and sinking down and shutting down.
And the deeper you go, the more peaceful the experience becomes."
Motives : At this point, you can either keep repeating these suggestions to yourself until you drift off to sleep, or you can use the building blocks of the Best Me Technique to pre-experience the rewards of a future goal.
If you are in the Mortgage Business, for example, you might proceed somewhat as illustrated in the breakdown which follows this section, using words of your own choosing to provide the greatest meaning.
As you proceed through each step, take a moment to clarify and intensify it in your mind, so that you feel each portion of the experience as strongly as possible.
Expectations: As you go through each step, believe it will happen, expect it to happen, and feel it happening , just as strongly as if you were willing it into being at that very moment.
The exact number of repetitions is not as important as the clarity and conviction with which you feel like you are willing your convictions into existence.
Decades of research have shown that people vary considerably in their responses to hypnosis.
For many people, there is no such thing as a "hypnotized" feeling.
An induction procedure is like the theme music to a motion picture or a television drama.
It allows us to shift our thinking from a strictly logical mode of thought to a more flexible, more imaginative way of looking at the world.
And we can all do that!
If you can believe in it, you can believe it.
And if you can believe it, you can make it happen!
Choose the goal.
This example illustrates the accomplishment of a specific goal: graduation.
You can increase the incentive value of the Best Me Technique still further by pre-experiencing other rewarding aspects of your goal, such as celebrating at a graduation party with friends and family, or relaxing on the deck of a cruise ship as you treat yourself to a much-deserved vacation after your goal has been achieved.
You may also want to pre-experience the rewards of sub-goals along the way, such as completing a unit of study , presenting a paper , or passing a major examination while overcoming the stress that goes with it, secure in the knowledge that you are on the way to a pre-determined and inevitable success.
Of course, the Best Me Technique can also be used to enhance performance in other areas, such as singing , dance , athletics , creative writing , motivating yourself to work out , or starting your own business.
It may also be a helpful part of a program to lose weight , stop smoking , or to rid yourself of other forms of addiction.
(B) Imagine yourself in the future, at the very moment you receive your statement showing your income.
(E) Feel the admiring looks of your friends and family upon you, and enjoy to the fullest your sense of pride and accomplishment as you dwell on the glow of your success.
(S) See it happen, hear it happen, and feel it happening , as you allow yourself to experience this thrill of achievement throughout every part of your body, from head to toe.
(T) Visualize this goal so clearly that it feels as if you were actually willing it into existence.
(M) Let yourself believe that you are headed toward a certain and inevitable success.
(E) And as a result, allow yourself to act , think , and feel as if it were impossible to fail.
When you have finished, you can simply allow yourself to drift off into a natural sleep , or you conclude your self-hypnosis session by using suggestions similar to the following.
(You don't need to memorize them, as long as you include each step of the Best Me Technique in a way that you feel comfortable with.)
Belief systems: Whenever you are ready, you can silently think to yourself that you will gradually emerge from self-hypnosis as you silently count from one to five, telling yourself that by the time you get to five, you are going to be back in the everyday state of consciousness in which we spend most of our waking lives.
Emotions: You are going to be feeling thrilled and delighted by the exciting experiences you have had.
Sensations and physical perceptions: Your entire body will feel happy, rested, and refreshed.
Thoughts and images: Your mind will be clear and alert, and you will easily be able to concentrate on anything that you have to do.
Motives: And each time that you return to these peaceful dimensions of self-hypnosis, you will find a deep, inner core of peace and happiness at the very center of your being, that nothing can weaken, nothing can dislodge, and nothing can overcome, which will give you the faith and the strength that you need to accomplish your goals, and turn each new day into a thing of wondrous beauty.
Expectations: And because you can unconsciously sense your own needs better than anyone else, each time that you return to these blissful dimensions of multimodal trance, it will improve your life in many different ways and on many different levels, some of which you may already be aware of and some of which you may not yet realize.