appearance.Confidence.Style.Prepare.
Before the date do something that relaxes you, exercise, reading, yoga, singing your favorite song, whatever puts you in an easy going, happy mood.
Wash yourself, put on antiperspirant/deodorant, brush your teeth, brush your hair, and don't forget to wear clean clothes!
Make a list of conversation starters and questions you can ask them if you're having trouble finding a topic.
Questions about their pet(s), taste in music, good books they've read lately, favorite thing to do outdoors, would you rather questions, are all good ideas.
Remember these and read the front page of the newspaper, too.
If you are taking your car, clean it out ! Bad environment = bad date.
Same goes if they are going to come over.
Choose someplace that will be special to your date.
If you're not sure what he or she will like, ask.
You may want to take him or her out to eat someplace out of the ordinary (don't go overboard, as this can set a bad precedent).
If it is a formal date, greet him or her with a small gift.
For example, a small box of chocolates or a single rose.
This is even better if you know what types of flowers or candies are your date's favorites.
Never try the single red rose on a casual first date, you may come on way too strong, as this signifies passionate love.
Try baking a nice treat, getting a small stuffed animal, or something else that is unique to them.
Never do anything big on the first date.
The best gift you can give is your company.
Communicate openly and honestly.
Talk to your date during dinner and listen to what he or she has to say.
If you are a guy, pay for the date, if you are a girl offer to pay for the date, if your offer is declined, offer to pay for yourself, if this does not fly, accept.
They are trying to be nice.
If you are a gay/lesbian couple, just ask them what they prefer to do and explain what you prefer to do and then compromise.
A lot of gay/lesbian couples run into this problem because both sides want to pay for themselves, the best bet is to either take turns paying or pay for yourself.
Ask questions about the life of your date.
Do a lot of listening, it's important not to over-chat them, try to listen a little more than you talk, but don't let the conversation just die out.
Look into your date's eyes.
Eye contact shows interest.
If you are confident that you have a sense of humor and intelligence, make them laugh.
But don't lecture.
Pay your date compliments, compliments are your best friend when dating, don't overdo it or offer anything insincere, try not to be too cheesy.
Find one or more qualities in which to sincerely compliment them.
Do something unusual and cheap, something you had to think about and put time into.
Don't do anything huge, just go for a stroll in your neighborhood or offer them cocoa, show them your favorite constellation, something interesting that you alone will be remembered for.