thunderstorm.Determine if you would want to join.
There are a number of factors that could influence this, particularly: Water issues, Time, Commitment, Social abilities.
Sea Scouts is a very fun program, but if you have issues swimming or just generally don't like getting wet, there's a bit of a problem.
If you're not sure you'll have the time, it might not be worth it to look into trying to get involved.
If you're not willing to be dedicated and committed, others may become upset or not want you to come if you're not going to in 100%.
Sea Scouting is very social, this doesn't mean you need to be Mr.
(or Ms.) Popular, but at dances and the like, you might feel out of place if you're not great at socializing.
If you think you're up to it, you'll need to find a Ship (equivalent of a troop).
Generally this is going to be a bit easier on coasts, particularly in California; however, there are some crews (another name for a ship/troop) in Utah and other lakey areas.
Your best bet will to be to try to get connected through a Boy Scout troop or office.
Some kids may also be able to get you into the program.
Talk to your parents.
Many kids have trouble getting into the program because their parents are disconcerted with the danger, time commitment, or change associated with joining a Sea Scouts ship.
If you've already been in Boy/Girl Scouts for a while, convince them that this is a great way to develop as a leader and young adult.
If you've already gotten in touch with a Ship, the officers (troop leaders) will be able to talk to your parents, as well.
Bring your parents to at least your first meeting.
Once your parents have an idea of who is going to be in charge of their child and what kind of activities are going on, they'll be much more comfortable.
Most people aren't comfortable just sending their kids off and assuming that they're going to be doing something productive and safe, so reassure them by letting them know who you're going to be with and what kind of things you'll be doing.
Technically, you could be in the program, but it's time to get involved.
Many Sea Scout crews are also Regatta teams (in this case, a regatta is a general competition involving mariner based skills from rope climb to sailing quiz).
This means that in order to be a 'good' scout for this crew, you need to be both active and a dedicated regatta team member.
Being physically fit and mentally strong will assist you in this endeavour.