calendar.Choose the right calendar for you.
No one calendar is right for everybody, but you should consider these factors.
Portability.
Will this calendar need to go with you to meetings or gatherings?
If so, choose something that fits easily in a pocket or purse.
Space to write.
Even if the calendar you use to decorate has pretty pictures or funny sayings, the calendar you use to track your appointments should, above all, have plenty of space to write down your appointments.
A format that you like.
There are calendars for the calendar year (January-December), for the school year (August through July), for lots of writing, for saving space, by days, by weeks, by months.
Shop around during calendar season or back-to-school season to find the right one for you.
Space for related information.
Should it have a phone list or book attached?
Pockets for bills?
Space for a daily to-do list or journal entry?
Visibility.
Will the whole family refer to this calendar, or would you prefer to keep it private and personal?
Keep your calendar handy, and keep a pen or pencil close by.
If it's not there when you schedule your appointments, you can't write them down or check against prior commitments.
Whether that means leaving it to your purse or tacking it to your wall, make a point to have it with you:
In class.
On your desk.
By your phone.
Wherever you open your mail.
During gatherings, meetings, or outings.
Anytime.
Write appointments and tasks in it as soon as you learn or think of them.
You can also write in reminders for yourself ahead of time.
Do you need to book reservations for August when it's still April?
Could you save time buying all your greeting cards for the month (or year) at once?
Write those events in both places.
Refer to your calendar frequently.
Look at it every time you schedule anything new.
Take a minute each morning or evening (or both; whatever works best for you) to look ahead to tomorrow and next week, at the least.
Your daily visit to your calendar is also a good time to write down anything you heard about that day but didn't yet record, and to look ahead for possible conflicts.
If you use an electronic calendar, such as on your computer or PDA, set reminders to pop up in advance of your appointments.
Most good systems allow you to adjust the reminder time, so set it so that you have enough warning.
Leave yourself time to prepare a homework assignment or presentation.
Leave yourself time to stop what you're doing and travel to whatever you're attending.