helpMake peace with your decision to lie.
Good lying means you've already gone past your moral or faith circuit breaker and justified to yourself that the lie in question is now a necessity.
A poor liar often trips up through continuing to struggle with the morality or faith issues behind the decision to lie.
Regardless of the finessing of reasons, if you want to lie successfully, you need to reach a place of internal equilibrium where the reason for the lie is adequately justified in your own mind.
At the same time, bear the following in mind:
Lying is despised because it has a tendency to hurt, cause disruption, and comes with major costs including emotional hurt, loss of loyalty, and sometimes financial loss or loss of social status.
And lying violates trust at both personal and societal levels, when most of us would still like to keep striving toward being able to trust one another.
Yet, it is arguable that sometimes a lie has a place, to protect a reputation, to prevent hurt to someone else, to ease tension , etc., but it will always depend on the context and extent of the lie, as well as the legality/morality of what is being lied about.
Some people find lying a breeze, namely sociopaths.
Those kind of lies are completely self-centered and without remorse and are unlikely to ever be considerate of another.
For most people, lies aimed at manipulating another person will always come at great cost to you when they're uncovered.
Some people find lying almost impossible.
Whether it's because they're inflexibly highly principled, have Asperger's syndrome [] or they've just never understood why honesty isn't always the best policy, lying is probably never going to be something that works for such a person.
Such a person may tend to confess or even put their foot in things.
However, assuming that never lying is right can sometimes lose sight of the subtleties and nuances required in relationships and situations in which you're in real danger (physical or emotional) or likely to hurt someone with the truth, so passing a general judgment on lying should be done with great care.
Lying now and then is a personal decision.
However, be realistic with yourself; using lies to avoid responsibility every time something goes wrong in your life can lead to compulsive lying and inability to tell the difference between the need for honesty and the need for safety - a state of mind that can ruin your life.
Under what circumstances are you willing to risk damaging relationships, reputation , and future opportunities and do the benefits of telling the lie outweigh the risks?
People end up in jail for lying, and worse.
Consider the likelihood of being detected.
Before launching into your lie, ask yourself what the chances are of being caught.
Only you can answer the question of how likely it is you'll be found out and the worthiness of lying about the matter.
Things to consider include:
Have I done this before and being caught out by the people I'm trying it on now?
If so, they're not likely to believe me now.
Were there witnesses ? If you're going to tell your partner you weren't snogging a total stranger in the corner of a party, you're running the risk that someone your partner knows was there too.
Do you feel confident about revising events to make a whole new story?
What are the likely reprisals if caught?
Is the person likely to be forgiving or likely to feel totally betrayed?
Is it a tiny lie the person can get over, or is it something that goes to the heart of trust in your relationship, that once broken, is unlikely to be mended?
Get your revision of events straight.
Once you've made the decision you're going to lie, you will need to come up with your plausible alternative to the facts.
As part of this, you need to figure out what you're going to say and what sorts of questions are likely to be asked, so that you can have answers to those questions already sorted out in your head.
Think of some specific true thing (place, person, event, story) that your lie will fit into and use those details if you are questioned.
This gives you a bank of specific details to draw on so you don't have to keep making things up as you go along.
Keep it simple.
The more things you have to lie about to support your original lie, the more likely you are to be tripped up.
Lying is a bit like chess you must always think ahead.
Anticipate what the person you're lying to is going to ask, and be prepared with a response.
Make sure you've thought about who you're lying to.
What do they already know?
What is acceptable or otherwise to them?
Writing out the lie can help.
The act of writing can enhance your memory of it, and also helps you to sort out the sequence.
Envision the lie.
In your mind, enact the lie as it "actually happened".
This will create the event in your mind for you and you'll be "remembering" it when you begin to retell it to others.
In a way, you are convincing yourself of the revision of reality and when you retell it, it begins to sound as you're telling the truth.
An example of this might be, "Did I wreck the car?
Well, I drove it into a wall.
So, the wall wrecked the car.
I just moved it!"
In the immortal words of George Costanza, "It's not a lie if you believe it's true."
This works well when your situation is quite ersatz.
Alternatively, try imagining that you weren't the person.
You're somebody else, a whole new person who didn't wreck the car.
Pretend to be that person.
Convince yourself that you're the person that didn't wreck the car.
Practice in front of the mirror
Practice lying in front of a mirror or video camera.
Observe your facial expressions.
Try making your eyes go big and letting your mouth hang open a little for an innocent or believable shocked look.
Also, practice looking like you're holding back tears.
When you smile , show your teeth a little and crinkle up your eyes and cheeks.
This is a 'sincere' smile, an ear-to-ear one.
Think about the little things, the details.
Details can make a lot of difference between a believable lie and an obvious load of verbal trash.
Add in extra details that help to embellish the event and make it appear more real in the retelling.
For example, "I was outside Burger King having a Whopper with John and Mary" is more believable than simply "I was outside Burger King."
(Naturally, if John and Mary aren't in on your lie, you'd need to fill them in to cover for you.)
Maintain eye contact
Do the opposite of what liars do.
Entire books exist on how to spot a liar.
Get hold of one, read it, and aim to do the opposite.
People in the act of telling lies tend to do things in the extremes either they try to avoid eye contact as much as possible or they never break eye contact.
In a normal conversation your eyes will move and you will look away to think, but otherwise you will maintain eye contact.
In all likelihood, there will always be some subtleties that a good liar spotter will notice (in the realm of criminal law enforcement, police and lie detectors are trained to detect differences in behavior , so learning what they're looking for can help you) but the average person can probably be hoodwinked with careful attention to avoiding some of the following giveaways:
Maintain eye contact.
Liars tend to look away.
Appear earnest but not too eager when looking the other person in the eye.
Don't look around, but don't stare either.
In a normal conversation people do avert their glance from the other person's eyes naturally.
Relax.
Don't fidget , pick at your clothing, or shuffle your feet.
Again, these are signs of someone trying to deflect the conversation away.
Keep your hands under control.
When people are lying, hands tend to head towards the face to cover the mouth or fiddle with parts of the face or clothing.
Keep your hands relaxed.
Don't touch your head with your hand, or hold your palms up.
Keep your palms at your side, and leave them there.
Don't use big words unless you usually do.
Anything unusual about your language or tone will suggest something shifty is up.
Keep the smiling to a normal minimum.
Think about smarmy people who smile too much when wanting to get something from you; that kind of smiling alerts you to something being up, so avoid overdoing the smiles.
Definitely don't laugh or chuckle.
Unless you're known for stuttering , don't stutter and definitely don't get flustered.
Some people blush or begin to stutter, because in some cases the subconscious panics.
Keep calm and collected.
Bring the lie up first before you're questioned about the matter.
It's better to lie to the person in advance than to have another person question you later on the same topic.
If the victim discovers your misdeed before you explain yourself, they'll have time to deduce what has happened with a certain degree of certainty before they ever even question you, making it much harder to convince them of your innocence in the matter.
For example: Joe, Bob's roommate, walks in the front door, Bob, looking up from the television screen is told by Joe that the dog ate his sandwich when Joe actually did.
Bob walks into the kitchen, discovers the sandwich is gone and shrugs.
However, if Joe never said anything, Bob would come out of the kitchen angry and assumed Joe ate his tender, delicious, mid-morning snack, which in turn makes him angry and less receptive to anything Joe has to say in his defense.
Make a truthful admission.
If you sense that someone else suspects you of lying, admit or make them suspect you of something small or untrue.
They will take the bait and think that that is all you were lying about.
If possible, combine your lie with the truth.
Say your mom heard you talking on the phone about how drunk you got last night.
She confronts you about it.
Of course, you cannot completely turn around and say you didn't touch alcohol.
Instead, include some of the truth while downplaying it.
If you said, "What?
I didn't drink!", say, "Yeah, mom, they had a bottle of scotch after work...
I took like one drink and I was out.
It was gross."
Blame the outcome as the cause.
Another way of twisting truth is to suggest that things were badly wrong before the big wrong happened.
For example, if you've broken something, you could simply say "My goodness, I had been trying to make that darn thing work all afternoon, right down to reading all the accompanying manuals and sticking tape on it.
And then all of a sudden, the wretched thing just came apart in my hands.
And it hurt me too!"
Add a small confession to your lie to reduce suspicion.
For example, you have a party your parents didn't authorize while they went out of town, and tell them when they return "I'm sorry, I forgot to feed the dog last night and he ripped up the sofa when I was out".
Sometimes doing this can take care of your guilty air.
Play dumb . Coming off as too stupid to lie is a great defense.
Lie as badly as you can about something small, but never actually admit to doing it.
You will be free to lie about much bigger things and never be suspected.
Fake memory loss might work.
For example, if your mom asked you what you did at lunch and you had been making out with the girlfriend you weren t supposed to have, instead of just saying "Uh...nothing special", say something more like: "Uh, I can't remember...stuff...talked to some friends".
This type of response sounds like what a parent expects to get from a teenager.
Try looking a little confused as you feign memory loss it'll make it more believable.
On the other hand, faking amnesia of an event around a police investigator will probably only raise suspicions and anyone who isn't satisfied with "I dunno, can't remember" is probably liable to go ballistic and really drill you for answers.
Rely on this approach with great caution.
Avoid elaborate stories that involve the need for corroboration.
The more people needed to back up your tale, the more likely a hole will open up as soon as one person stuffs it up or forgets their "role" in it.
Equally, if something you've said can be confirmed, such as a doctor testing for temperature, checking dates and occurrences in records, checking your credit card transactions, etc., then you are going to find it difficult to wriggle out of facts that are there in black and white.
Be very careful when pushing away the discussion from yourself to someone else.
It may seem easier to lie and say that you weren't doing what the rest of the crowd was by going into great detail about what "some people in the crowd" were up to.
This tactic of trying to make you appear more angelic than anyone else in the crowd can backfire very easily because all the questioner needs to do is talk to other people who were there to find out how you were behaving at the time.
For example, your partner questions you about whether you drank too much the night before.
You describe as much of the night as you can but lie about your own antics, talking about what everybody else got up to and say: 'Yeah, last night was okay.
You should have seen Harry though!
He downed 6 shots and got chucked out the bar for hitting someone!'
While this might work once or twice, if it's your standard tactic, it's likely to be viewed for the whitewash that it is.
Appear indifferent . Another way to wriggle your way out of an uncomfortable situation is to act indifferent and to avoid responding defensively.
Keep your voice tone steady and don't protest too much.
Act like you don't care whether or not the person believes you.
If you're really good at this, you can even make it seem that you're disappointed by their lack of faith in you but that you're willing to be forgiving of their lack of faith in you.
Be very careful not to make it obvious when you try to change the subject.
A person who continuously changes the subject when a topic comes up gets noticed and puts the listener on alert.
Trying to be cheerful about a totally unrelated topic when a serious matter is going down unanswered can give the game away that you're "trying too hard" to divert attention from the real issue at hand.
Giveaways include laughing too hard at jokes, cracking inappropriate jokes, talking about a pet topic to try and cover up the elephant in the room, and talking in a way that seems nervous, excited, or flippant.
Follow through.
One of the real reasons why lying doesn't pay and isn't a good means for getting through life is that you have to remember it, in all of its glory, possibly for the rest of your life.
You cannot forget about your lie, its details, etc., and you will have to go on treating it like it actually happened.
Depending on the context of the lie, staying silent about it might arouse suspicion , especially in retrospect, so you may need to keep mentioning it in conversations the way you would if it had been true.
This step might be the one that gives you great pause...
To officials (government, police , serious job interviews) unless you fully understand and are prepared to accept the results.
In the majority of nations, lying to a police officer or in a court of law is a serious, illegal offense.
For your own sake, be honest about criminal activity; you may find that the penalty is lessened or that your lawyer can find technical or legal loopholes if you are honest from the outset.
The sooner you get a lawyer and start working on your release, the better; lying first will hold things up and can make whatever honest explanations you do make seem dodgy.
To your doctor or lawyer.
Ask them if you are speaking in the course of a professional relationship (doctor-patient or attorney-client).
If they say yes, things you tell them are privileged, and they cannot reveal them even to a court or to the police.
This does not hold true if your doctor/ psychologist feels you may commit a serious offense, such as murder.
Also, some other circumstances may change your relationship with your lawyer/doctor but don't forget that a lawyer is paid to defend you and to find "mitigating circumstances" so don't think with your reptile brain that wants to hide; use your neocortex and think smart defenses instead.
To defraud.
Never lie to people to get their money, life's savings, and other valuables from them.
Not only is this an illegal thing to do, it's a really low and despicable a way to behave.
To an attacker.
When you are being held at knife-point and having someone demand your wallet, your life is worth more than pretending you don't have your wallet.
To your kids.
Avoid lying to your kids about family deaths or divorce.
They're going to find out sooner or later and the web of lies just makes things worse.
Set a good example for them!
To cover up for someone else.
If someone else has committed a crime, let them pay for it, otherwise you'll pay for it by being an accessory if you know about it but don't tell.