nessacery.Work your way into hardcore.
If the toughest thing you've listened to is Michael Jackson, and you turn on Minor Threat record without easing in, you'll be in for a nasty surprise and a nasty headache.
Listen to something like Lagwagon and/or Green Day, then NOFX and/or Bad Religion, then get into some hardcore bands.
Another way is to take a modern rock band you like and listen to their hardcore influences (most rock bands today were influenced by hardcore).
Do you like My Chemical Romance?
Listen to The Misfits.
Do you like Screeching Weasel?
Listen to the Descendants.
Do you like Rise Against?
Listen to Black Flag.
Look up the hardcore bands that influenced your favorite musicians today.
Understand the history of hardcore punk.
Read the book or watch the movie American Hardcore.
Both are a very good look into what hardcore was all about, and you can probably find the movie online for free.
Choose some hardcore bands to listen to.
Contrary to popular belief, there are many different types of hardcore.
If you're into horror movies, you should try The Misfits, who played a melodic style of music with horror movie themes lyrically.
If you like controversial, outrageous, humorous songs, listen to the Dead Kennedys.
They have many songs that protest things like Neo-Nazis, the government, and organized religion.
There was a time during their career that they were considered "the world's most dangerous rock band".
Look up some bands and decide which one would be right for you.
Understand what hardcore is not.
Many people get the incorrect assumption that hardcore kids were all troublemaking, drug using Nazis.
While it is true that some did drugs and some were Neo-nazis, they are looked down upon by 90% of the hardcore scene and aren't considered real punks.
The Dead Kennedys even had a single called "Nazi Punks Fuck Off!".
There is a small form of hardcore called Straight Edge.
Straight Edge kids swear off alcohol, drugs, and tobacco.
Others swear off casual sex, and their is even a faction of vegetarian/vegan straight edge punks.
The classic example of a Straight Edge band is Minor Threat, who developed the scene itself with their song "Straight Edge".
Numerous bands in the 80s and 90s made entire albums based on the straight edge ideal of living right.
Know the look.
While most music scenes have a lot of fashion in them, hardcore punk is a scene with an anti-fashion emphasis.
Most Hardcore kids wear nothing more than a T-shirt and jeans.
No flashy accessories, no weird hairstyles, just normal looking stuff.
Straight Edge kids are known to have black X's on the back of their hands to symbolize their abstinence to alcohol drugs and tobacco and casual Sex.
For hair, just do what you want.
Be yourself.
That is what Hardcore is all about.
Another important aspect of Hardcore "fashion" is DIY clothing.
Don't wanna pay $18 at Hot Topic for a Black Flag shirt?
Buy a plain shirt for a fraction of the price and put the Black Flag logo on it yourself!
It's also fun to draw on your shirts and pants.
Spikes are welcome, but unnecessary.
The same goes for Mohawks and buzz cuts.
Get the hardcore music, son ! Go to a store and get some of the best of hardcore.
There are many great artists.
Refer to the Tips section of this article for a list of great Hardcore bands and some of their best albums.