work.Make sure all windows, doors, and anything big enough for even a child to slip through are locked (unless they are being used).
Make sure you know the location of each and every family member that is at home, no matter what.
Make sure you know of any visitors (who they are and why they are there), and that you are informed that the person is expected by a family member.
If they are not expected, make sure someone knows who they are and what they want before letting them in.
Keep track of all children when it comes to the phone, internet, weekend plans, activities, etc. Do not assume that your child has everything under control.
Make sure of it.
Check on any family member that is outside and out of contact for more than ten minutes.
Pay attention to any unusual noise or behavior.
Make sure the family introduces absolutely everyone that comes into the house.
Allow no one to be a stranger.
Do a random check throughout the entire home to make sure nothing is going on that can cause a fire or explosion.
Make sure that nothing with any kind of a sharp edge is lying around where someone could accidentally run into it and cause an accident.
Make sure that no electrical equipment is anywhere near water or moisture.
It is generally a good idea to get to know all your neighbors (and everyone that walks past your home frequently).
Make sure the children do not talk to anyone you do not know.
If you do have a stranger that keeps popping up from wherever, make every effort you can (even if it is a group effort) to track the person down and learn as much as possible about them.
When at home, make sure all the doors on all the vehicles are locked and shut securely.
Make sure to maintain air pressure in the tires, and carry plenty of gas.
If your phone is in frequent use, consider a second phone line, a three-way calling feature, or a cell phone (even if prepaid) for emergencies.
Always keep flashlights handy (with working batteries).
If nothing else is available, glow sticks will work.
Keep emergency phone numbers and first aid kits handy and easy to access.
Never rely on yourself to solve a problem alone.
When in doubt, call a friend, local law enforcement, the fire department, or a similar agency for assistance.
Always go with your gut feeling about someone until you know for a fact (beyond any doubt at all) that you were wrong.