attitude!If you live in the USA, check out your address at WalkScore . This website is a great mapping tool for locating the nearest services near almost any location.
The higher the score, the easier it will be for you to live without a car.
Determine why you are going car-less.
For some people, it's about social responsibility (i.e. minimizing fossil fuel consumption).
For others, it's about health or to save money.
For still others, it's because, for whatever reason, they don't have a driver's license.
And for a few, it's simply about freedom not being tied down to the responsibilities of owning and maintaining a car.
Your reason behind living without a car will affect how far you're willing to go with this lifestyle choice.
But no matter what your motivation is, one thing's for sure: there will be tremendous cost savings.
Keep your car as backup during a transition period.
While you're testing out your car-free lifestyle and working out the kinks, you should hold on to your car until you can rely on alternative means.
Once you can go for 1 to 2 months without touching the car, you're ready to let it go.
Then, donate your car to charity for a tax write-off or sell it and get some of your hard earned money back.
Use public transportation.
If you live in an area with public transportation, take advantage of it.
Research routes, find out about special fares and programs, bookmark the local trip planner on your computer, and save the customer service number on your cell phone.
Consider moving to a location that is within biking or walking range to all the important places, such as grocery stores and bus or train stops or public transportation hubs.
Get a map of the city's transit system or use an online trip planner, and find out how quickly you can reach a variety of destinations from your prospective home.
It's always good to have at least a small grocery store within easy walking distance for quick trips.
If you're looking for a big change, move to a city with a good public transit system, such as Chicago, New York, or Portland, Oregon.
Alternatively, relocate to a small, yet still sizable city like Madison, Wisconsin, where you can cross the whole city by bike in a reasonable time.
If you're worried about the expense of moving and living in a different neighborhood (e.g. higher rents), weigh the additional costs with the savings you can achieve by not having a car.
Get a more conveniently located job.
People most often choose housing that is near their place of business, but if you like a particular neighborhood or house, you can do the opposite.
Make sure that your workplace is located within walking or biking range to a bus stop or train station.
Also find out how difficult it is to reach your workplace from your house; if you can only get there by taking three different buses over two hours, it's not really accessible.
If possible, avoid the commute altogether by working near (or from) your home.
Look into the possibility of telecommuting a few days a week or staggering hours to avoid sitting in traffic.
Buy a bicycle . The cheapest ones at discount stores may go as low as $45 and high quality commute bikes range from $500 to $1200.
Garage sales and online classifieds like www.craigslist.com frequently offer additional low cost or even free bicycles.
Police departments often have annual sales of bicycles they've recovered.
Remember besides being free, environmentally friendly, and usually immune to traffic congestion, bikes also give you a free daily workout.
If your day to day life is going to depend on the bicycle, look into the climate and other factors as described in the Tips below.
Buy an electric bike or an electric scooter.
Remember all the hype over the Segway?
This is a simpler solution.
These bikes are rapidly spreading in China, Japan, and many other countries of the world.
They put out very little CO2 relative to a car, they are incredibly cheap to "fuel," and they are a fun and familiar ride.
A typical electric bike costs $500 to $1500, and will go 8-20 miles on a charge.
You can pedal assist or go with all electric, but the bikes are great if you want to wear your work clothes and avoid a shower (less sweat, faster to work).
They are actually pretty fast (14 - 20 mph), don't require insurance, and are low maintenance.
Batteries can be lead acid (reliable and cheap, but heavy), nickel metal hydride (long lasting and lighter, but more expensive), and lithium ion (very light and long lasting, but expensive and still somewhat untested in bikes).
Join forces with other commuters.
Buy a moped, scooter, or small motorcycle.
These small two-wheelers are relatively inexpensive to purchase, insure, maintain, and operate, and are fun to ride.
In many cities of the world, two-wheeled vehicles outnumber cars.
Consider participating in car sharing programs, such as City Car-Share, i-Go, FlexCar, ZipCar or VanPoolHawaii.
There are a variety of programs that enable you to use a vehicle when you need one.
If you just need to get to work, you might be able to arrange a vanpool from your local transit service.
If you need to take a trip outside of the range of inexpensive public transportation, try to get a rideshare.
You simply find a driver who's going your way and give them gas money or help them out with the driving.
You can find rideshares on the Internet.
Take a taxi or rent or borrow a car.
For those times when a bus simply will not do (picking up 42 potted begonias), you might well need a car.
But even renting a car several times a year usually makes more sense than owning a car for just those few times you might absolutely need one.