him.Start at a slow pace.
If you suddenly leave the house one day in black fishnets, a 'Sisters of Mercy' t-shirt, loads of eyeliner, a tattered skirt and Combat boots, when yesterday you wore conservative clothing, your parents will be caught off-guard, and may have good reason to flip.
Just try wearing a black shirt and pants for a couple of weeks.
Then you can gradually move over to some more "extreme" clothes like fishnets, studs and so on.
If you ease into it slowly, chances are they won't be as surprised and disconcerted.
If you've tried hiding your goth leanings from your parents because you know they just won't understand, but suddenly find that you've been caught, explain your side of things rationally.
It's you that has to be seen in public with these clothes, not your mom or dad.
Why does it bother them?
Didn't they try any alternative life-styles when they were young?
By all means, do not start yelling, shouting or screaming.
However, it is also best not to be too keen to compromise; you have your right to your own lifestyle, as they do to theirs.
Dispose all the religious leanings towards Gothic as much as you can.
Try to disassociate being Gothic from any particular religion as best as you can.
This may be hard, given the religious imagery often used in all things Goth.
Though Satanism is not, of course, associated with the Goth scene, parents may not know this.
Try to explain this to them, and be as calm as possible.
It can be hard if you have fundamentalist Christian family members who are convinced that you are worshipping Satan just because you've started dressing differently, Calmly explain to them that you're not, and if you go to church, continue to do so.
(It won't ruin your goth credibility, but please be sure to leave the latex and leather at home.)
If they're still convinced that you've become a Satanist, be sure to spend lots of time with them (they're more likely to think less of you if you're spending a lot of time alone in your room), and point out similarities between a lot of gothic artistic elements, and the art of the Medieval Catholic church.
Don't hang out with "bad people" and expect your parents to not worry.
Do your new Goth friends smoke/drink/do drugs?
Can you blame your parents for being scared?
They are right, if this happens.
Buy a thin black (floor length, preferably) jacket.
Wear a bright colored shirt so mom doesn't think a bad thought at all, but put the jacket on when you go out.
Your mom won't think about it twice, but you'll be in all black.
Eyeliner is okay to apply in front of you parents (if you're a girl), but if you want the "overboard" look, wait till you're outside.
Try to make your mom buy black clothes for you, but don't dress "all-black" too often.
That's when your mom will flip out and she'll never buy any more clothes for you.