wearer.Gather a combination of differently sized, sturdy boxes.
Cardboard boxes can be obtained for free from membership warehouse stores, liquor stores, furniture stores, discount stores, copy shops, toy stores, or grocery stores.
Cardboard tubes can be salvaged from paper towels, wrapping paper, mailing tubes, and bolts of fabric.
Gather materials to hold the boxes together.
It is important to pick appropriate materials for your cat.
For example, if your cat chews cardboard, don't use tape or glue.
Pick the materials according to whether you want to be able to disassemble some or all of the boxes after you are finished or whether you want some or all of the boxes to be permanently connected.
Plan the structure for the play equipment before actually cutting,ripping,or connecting boxes.
Decide whether you want different "rooms" to have different purposes: sleeping room, playroom, snack room, observation deck,etc.
Consider the placement of the play equipment in your home: next to a window (should have lots of windows), with a view of the aquarium or television (needs strategically placed window), in a corner (needs reasonable support), freestanding in the middle of the room (needs extra support).
Experiment with different ways of arranging the boxes: Put some boxes inside of others.
Connect two or more groups of boxes using single, long boxes as tunnels or bridges.
Make steps using a series of smaller boxes.
Experiment with different size windows, doors, and trap doors.
Try drawing windows, doors, or trap doors first before cutting.
Use cardboard tubes as support posts in vertical structures.
For advanced cat house builders, use pizza boxes to create balconies supported by columns below.
Cardboard tubes can also be used to create see-saws; fold one or two in half and place inside another for stability, then tape the tube to the bottom of a long, narrow box with various 'portholes' cut into it.
Kittens especially will be entertained by the unexpected rocking as they move from one end to another.
Connect the boxes.
It is easiest to do this in the room where the play equipment will stay.
After it is assembled, it can be difficult to maneuver play equipment around corners, up or down stairs, or through doorways.
Make the play equipment comfortable for your cat.
Use materials that can be removed for cleaning (check the list below).
Cat size pillows can be made from old socks, potholder mitts, pillowcases, hand towels, shirts, curtains.
Decorate the play equipment (optional).
Be sure to avoid materials that are choking hazards or toxic.
See if your cat might like a "curtain" over a window or doorway.
Perhaps a small, sturdy mirror would provide entertainment.
Introduce your cat to the play equipment the trick is how you train them to be it.
Catnip might entice wary kitties.
Placing familiar toys or blankets inside the entrance "room" may encourage your cat to explore their new cat house.
Try temporarily placing your cat's food dish inside the cat house.
Place the "mansion" next to a window or in a sunbeam.