accessChoose the dishes to offer, and the prices for each dish.
This is more of a business decision than a design issue (and as such, you may be handed this list) but in terms of making an appealing menu, keeping variety in mind is generally a good idea.
Make sure there are a few "economy" (cheap) dishes that are below the average price of the dishes, plus a few "specialty" (expensive) items.
Consider offering dishes specifically for vegetarians, vegans , and/or kids.
You can also have a few low-calorie or heart-healthy dishes.
Think about offering happy hour specials and specials for seniors, military personnel, and other groups.
This can mean offering a discount on certain dishes at a certain time (preferably low traffic times), or offering a smaller portion of a dish at a low price during that time.
Write descriptions based on the restaurant's style.
The casual establishment needs a short and fast definition for each menu item.
Descriptions and adjectives should be kept to a minimum.
A formal restaurant requires more extensive information about the preparation, the ingredients and any background on the pedigree of the dish.
It's also wise to make note (either with words or a symbol) if any of the following apply:
The dish is hotter/spicier than most of the other dishes on the menu.
The dish contains any ingredients that people are allergic to (e.g. peanuts).
The dish caters to a group with special dietary needs (vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, low-calorie [include an accurate calorie count], low-sodium, low-acid, etc.)
Break down the sections of the menu.
You can classify foods by any of the following:
primary ingredients (such as seafood or pasta)
region (Italy, France, etc.)
style (barbecue, stir fry, soups, stews)
time of day (breakfast, brunch, lunch, dinner, happy hour)
specials (as discussed above)
Also, note that the beverages section usually goes at the very end--the most obscure spot.
Choose photos (optional).
High-quality photos will often help a dish sell better.
Determine whether actual photos of the restaurant's specials are available, or if stock photos are acceptable.
In general, clip art type illustrations are a poor choice for a professional menu design.
Create preliminary mock-ups of the menu layout.
Use all the information gathered thus far.
You will probably want to limit initial designs to just category or section titles and relevant graphics.
Use greeking for the menu items until you have it narrowed down to two or three layouts.
There are many free templates available online which you can use.
Keep in mind, however, that high-end menus tend to be shorter and simpler in design.
There is also software available that's specifically for menu design, but it's possible to create a menu using any graphic design software, and even just word processing programs (if the layout is very simple).
Create a second round of mock-ups.
This time, include the dish names, descriptions, and prices.
You'll probably feedback in how the items are ordered.
Generally, however, the best-selling items are listed first.
Use larger, simple fonts for restaurants with a large elderly clientele.
People buy more if they can easily read the choices!
Try not use more thanfonts in the menu.
Menus with a very large selection often give each dish its own number, and the numbers continue chronologically through sections.
This makes it easier for the customer to communicate with the staff: "I want number