first.Do not keep looking at the clock.
Once is OK, but no more.
Time goes slowly if you look at the clock.
As they say, "A watched clock never turns."
Pay attention to what the teacher is saying.
School is a place of study, so you might as well do your work.
It also passes time, as it keeps your mind off the time.
Who knows?
You might actually learn something interesting.
When taking notes, change up the way you write ! For one line, you could write in cursive, the next in regular font, the next in all caps, the next in lowercase.
Also, try to use different colored pens (try to color code things that match).
This will keep you busy, and it will also help you remember what you wrote down for important tests, quizzes, etc.
(i.e. When did the Revolutionary War end?
Oh, it was in pink cursive!
"The Revolutionary War ended in 1776")
Try something new.
Do something that will pass the time and that is fun at the same time.
For example: Try writing in graffiti style, it takes a lot of practice but in the end you can come up with some amazing things.
Or, train your brain to dot your I s with hearts or bubbles or stars.
Or all of the above.
Stare at the teacher (Not window ! You will get caught!)
and day-dream.
Only when you're ahead and know what the teacher is teaching.
Because no matter what, you will remember your daydream, not the lesson.
Use your imagination.
For example, think about being in a different world, it sounds weird, but it does work!
Hum or sing quietly to yourself.
But don t annoy your desk mate if you have one; they have the best time to get revenge.
Ask the teacher questions.
Once again, participating in class can pass time.
Because then the teacher will have to stop what they're saying and take questions.
Think 'IF' . So think about what would happen IF... and imagine something nice.
Do homework.
It gives you more free time when you're home, and you're still learning
Pay.
Attention.
It.
Passes.
Time.
Sit near the front or with a responsible student you can get along with and chat with when you two finish early, but not with your BFF.
No matter how good of a student you two are, you will get chatty.
Learn something new, like how to say the alphabet backwards.
It s not the best idea if you don t know the lesson, but it helps after test when you can t talk or read.
Do something unusual.
Go to bed on time and finish all your homework so you can go to school stress free.
Bring food that you'll look forward to eating.
For example, drive by Starbucks or Dunkin Donuts on your way to school to pick up something you love.
Get to know your teachers.
Some of them may have microwaves (which are surprisingly helpful) and you can make hot cocoa or something else you love.
Dress comfortably.
There is nothing wrong with wearing sweatpants and a comfy jacket for a day.
Being comfy will make you stress less about time.
If you have a watch, remember to NOT set an alarm.
It can go off and make you see your watch.
Then, you will be tempted.
Try taking it off every Maths, HSIE class etc.
Join Clubs.
Try signing up in clubs that you are interested.
If you have fun then time will fly by.