equipment.Paint the wall space around your door if your allowed.
(This is all optional)
Next Get a welcome mat and a bedroom door bell.
Put up numbers if you like.
Get a coat rack and a shoe rack.
(This is all optional)
Get a mat for the door.
Get a small table and put some flowers and a phone with a cord on the table.
Put a couch in the corner of the room.
It does not even have to be anything fancy, it could even just be a big mattress with one of the horizontal sides propped up on the wall.
Get a throw pillow and put it on the armrest.
Put a small coffee table in front of the couch.
You can put whatever you want on this table, such as magazines or a bowl of fruit.
Try and get a small TV for your living room.
In another corner, put your bed.
Make sure it's neat and has fresh sheets that match to colour scheme.
Get a wardrobe,chest of drawers and a make-up table if you want too.
Get a table and some chairs.
Now get a mini fridge and a table top cupbord.
Get a basin,a table and your bathroom supplies.
(This is all optional)
This is more for washing than doing business.
Put the basin on the table.
Put a mirror nearby.
Use the other table space for towels,toothbrushes etc.
Get a basket and clothes rack.
(This is all optional)
Next get some water in a basin.
This is to wash your clothes.
Get a desk first of all.
Get at least two bookcase if you want.
(This is all optional)
Get your laptop or computer and put it on the desk
Get some storage boxes and an arm chair.
A table will work well too.
(This is all optional)
Gather all your toys and sort them out.
Get a pet bed or place where your pet could sleep.
(This is all optional)
Get a bowl and some pet food and water.
Have newspapers or a litter box in handy...
Get a window box or ask for a small space of land outside you're window or if you have a balcony that would work.
Fence the area if you want.
Measure the window box(es) or land you have.
(This is all optional)
Window box steps
Paint your window box with bright paintings.
Plant some vegetables.
Plant all different flowers.
Repeat some or all steps if there is more then one window box.
Small area steps.
Plant flowers and get a deck chair or bench.
Put up a bird house and bird feeder if you want.
Try putting up a small washing line to dry clothes.
Get garden toys such as a hula hoop,small paddling pool,a ball etc.
Get some potted plants.
Get two chairs and a table.
Consider putting up a small washing line on your balcony to dry clothes.