time.Buy a plain brown mailing box.
Make sure that the box is the correct size - you don't want the box too small or too large.
(When mailing from the U.S. go to www.usps.com and go to SUPPLIES and click on FLAT RATE.
You will find flat rate boxes for APO/FPO addresses.
These are for troops overseas and the USPS will mail you these boxes for free.
The shipping costs for the flat rate is usually cheaper than shipping by weight, depending on what you are sending.)
Make sure anything you are planning to send (toothpaste, sanitizer, etc) is in travel-size accessories.
It will be a lot easier for marines to carry around with them.
Tape the box up really well after you are done.
If you are taking the box to a local or non-military post office, you may either be rejected (as they don't send to POs), have to pay a fee, or need to fill out a customs form.
You'll also need to fill out a customs form if taken to a military post office.
(Name): SSGT.
G. I. Joe;
(Street/Box):st Grenade Repair Co.
Dud Testing Btn
(City, State, Zip) APO, AA
Figure out what your Marine or Soldier wants - even if he doesn't use it or prefers not to - they tend to give it to another marine or Soldier who does; so don't worry what you put inside.(Just a note that there are Female Soldiers and Marines overseas too.)
Buy toothpaste in tubes but buy sanitizer in a jug at Wal-Mart , K-Mart, Costco, or anywhere that sells stuff in bulky quantity.
On the side, buy lots of lotion travel bottles sold empty at the stores mentioned above or at a dollar store or variety/discount store.
To fill all the empty lotion travel bottles that you purchased, take the covers off and squirt or funnel the sanitizer into the bottles.
You should get about 6 to 8 (or a little more) bottles with a good sized sanitizer jug.
Look for the cheapest needs : grab a handful of $1 toothbrushes, travel medicine such as Tylenol packs, generic brand things, etc. Generic baby wipes are important, as they use them for cleaning themselves and their weapons.
Put everything in Ziplock baggies.
This is to avoid sand and other things getting in stuff.
It also helps the military, as they in turn, use the baggies for other uses.
Secure cookies and other candies very well before putting it into the box.
If you are sending food like these, make sure you plan to send it as soon as possible.
Wrap laptops and other very important valuables in bubble wrap a few times and tape it up very well.
Label everything, especially if you are creating the toothpaste and sanitizer bottles.
Marines share & give out items, so please don't leave the deciding to them.
Avoid anything that can melt.
Iraq can get up to 120 degrees Fahrenheit or higher.
Ensure that care packages stay rated PG-13 or lower.
Leave all "personal" situations between you & your partner when they come home.
This means omit all adult only items out of it.