best.Determine what disasters your area is susceptible to.
If you live in Kansas, you don't need to prepare for a hurricane, but you'd better be ready for tornadoes.
While some disasters, such as fire, can happen anywhere, the hazards you might encounter vary widely from place to place.
Check with your local emergency management or civil defense office, Red Cross chapter, or the National Weather Service to get an idea of what emergencies you should prepare for.
Find out what you should do in case a disaster strikes.
The organizations above will likely be able to advise you what to do in an emergency.
They may be able to provide you with evacuation maps and information about local warning systems and emergency plans.
If you can't get all the information you need from officials, research your local hazards on your own.
Figure out, for example, what preparations you should make for a tornado or hurricane (you can find information on many disaster situations right here on wikiHow) and how to survive if you're caught in a disaster, and determine the best evacuation routes on your own if need be.
Remember, when push comes to shove, it's your responsibility to ensure your family is well prepared.
Pick a meeting spot and a way to get in contact with your family members.
There's a good chance that all your family members won't be in the same place when disaster strikes, so it's important to have a predetermined rendezvous point.
Choose a spot that will likely be safe and that is well away from your neighborhood, as you might not be able to make it back to your home.
Designate a friend or relative as a contact person that you, your spouse, and your children can call if you can't meet up.
In order to minimize the chance that the contact person will also be affected by the disaster, choose someone who lives in a distant town or in a different state.
Make sure that all your family members have the contact person's phone number with them at all times.
Discuss disaster scenarios with your family and make sure everyone knows what to do in all the likely emergency scenarios.
It's important to educate yourself on how to respond to likely hazards, but what happens to your family if they are away from you or if you're killed or injured?
It's not enough for one person in the family to know what to do--everybody should know the plan.
Fix potential hazards in your home.
Once you've identified potential disaster scenarios, thoroughly inspect your house and try to make it as safe as possible.
Here are just a few examples:
Every home should have smoke detectors and fire extinguishers.
Test smoke detectors at least once a month, and replace their batteries yearly or as needed.
Fire extinguishers should be recharged according to the manufacturer's instructions, and family members should learn how to use them.
Everyone should also know how to escape the house in the event of a fire.
If you live in an area prone to earthquakes , you wouldn't want a tall, heavy bookcase sitting right next to the baby's crib, as it could be knocked over in a quake.
If you live near woods with the possibility of forest fires, you should clear your property of brush and high grass to create a buffer zone between your home and the fire.
Teach your family basic life-saving techniques.
Everyone who can learn CPR and first aid should take a certification class and keep their certification current.
Adults and older children should know how to turn off gas, electricity and water if the house is damaged, and everyone should know how to detect a gas leak.
Emergency numbers should be posted near phones, and even small children should be taught how to call 9-1-1 or the corresponding emergency number in your country.
Practicing how to use a fire extinguisher and checking smoke detectors are great reminder exercises to do once a year.
Assemble a disaster kit . Be prepared for emergencies with at least a three-day supply of non-perishable food and potable water , prescription medications , first aid supplies, and other things you might need if you have no utilities and no way to purchase supplies.
Keep a smaller kit in the trunk of your car.
See the related wikiHow for more details on building a disaster kit.
An inexpensive "pay-as-you-go" cell phone is a good addition to the kit.
Practice your plan.
Practice makes perfect, and in a life-or-death situation, you want to respond perfectly.
Periodically go over your emergency plans with your family, and update them as needed.
Quiz and drill your family on important safety concepts.
Do a live test with your family; make it an outing and get everyone involved.
That will help you identify what works and what doesn't.