emergency.Figure out where you want to go.
To the beautiful rose city of Toulouse in south west France?
To Berlin in Germany?
To Mexico?
Venezuela?
Spain?
Russia?
Learn a bit about the country, local customs (very important), language (even more important) and areas.
Also learn if it's a peaceful country and how to immigrate.
Know that moving to a place that is nothing like your home will give you culture shock and make the move much more difficult.
Go on holiday to the country so you can see it first hand.
Guidebooks are all very nice but it's not quite the same.
Also don't hang out in the tourist areas, get off the beaten track and mix with the locals!
If you are planning on moving for an indefinite amount of time, understand what you are getting yourself into.
While the first few months will feel like an amazing vacation, you will eventually have a life there (and it probably won't be as exciting as you think).
If you have property to sell in your own country, make sure you have all the legal aspects in place before you embark on buying or renting in your new country
Watch property programs like 'Relocation Relocation' or 'Home & away abroad' or 'grand Designs' (UK TV networks or online)
Go see the local authority (mayor, immigration office, your embassy) to find out what you need to do to become an immigrant and what forms you'll need for health care, insurance, driving, etc.
If your not familiar with the customs of the local people, try and do some research beforehand and get to know the ways as much as possible
Try not to be daunted or get scared at the last minute  : This is often the case but you will need a fair bit of gumption and spirit, this isn't for the faint hearted and needs a fair bit of planning.
Plan plan plan.
Have an attack plan, a structure.
Plan for shipping details.
make sure you have enough money saved up.
Also check for visas and order them if and where necessary
Get your accommodation sorted well in advanced and check before travel
If buying, make sure all contacts & money is sorted well before travel.
Donate ! Remember travel light!
Donate old clothes and belongings that you don't need.
Be ruthless as it will only cost you more in shipping
Get the details of a reputable shipping firm and put unwanted possessions into a safe storage facility if need be.
Once there, keep contact with your friends ! you'll need them more than ever.
Use social networking sites such as Facebook and twitter and email to keep in touch, and invite your closest friends over to stay once in a while for a mini-break
Remember happiness is the most important thing !