sheetThis map shows the percentages of undernourished people per country
Learn about World Food Day and hunger issues.
World Food Day itself is a worldwide event aimed at increasing everyone's awareness about the issues surrounding food, its distribution, and hunger.
It has been held since 1979 and has a different theme every year.
[2]
Visit the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization's (FAO) website at http://www.fao.org/getinvolved/worldfoodday/en/ or the World Food Day USA site at http://www.worldfooddayusa.org/.
Read about the history of World Food Day and the other things people are doing in the world to support food projects.
Visit the World Food Programme's website and download its free book: "Revolution: From Food Aid to Food Assistance - Innovations in Overcoming Hunger".
Find out who has won The World Food Prize for the year, and the reason why.
Learn about the different caloric intakes of each country.
Reflect on the issues involved in a world where obesity epidemics co-exist with hunger.
Take the Hunger Quiz.
It's at the World Food Programme's site: http://www.wfp.org/stories/10-things-you-can-do-world-food-day#hunger-quiz.
If you know the correct answers to the ten questions, you're ready to educate others about hunger!
Use the social media network to spread the word about hunger.
Become a fan of the World Food Programme on Facebook.
Suggest that your friends like the page too.
Use your Twitter account to tweet about uniting against hunger and the World Food Programme (WFP).
Share facts about hunger, preventing hunger,and encourage your followers to support efforts to prevent hunger.
Follow the FAO, The World Food Prize, and the World Food Programme on Twitter.
Put a photo on The Wall against Hunger at http://wall.wfp.org/.
Keep a regular eye on the WFP's video blog, "On the Road", which sends back details of work being done in the field to alleviate hunger.
Make your own video and enter the Hungerbytes competition.
Find events in your area that are observing World Food Day.
Check online and in your local paper for fundraising events such as concerts and talks that you can attend.
The FAO keeps track of a number of events.
[7]
Consider entering any sporting events that are being held to raise funds for hunger.
Look exhibitions, conferences, and displays from government, NGOs, research institutions, etc. []
Many university campuses hold projects to become involved in on World Food Day.
Check your university's website.
In the USA, some universities use this day to collect canned food to donate to local food banks.
Join an organization that is preparing food packages.
Volunteer your time to help prepare the packages.
Play.
Several online games can teach you more about hunger issues or even provide donations of food.
Some include:
FreeRice.
You play, sponsors pay.
All you have to do is guess the correct synonym of a word.
For every correct answer, 10 grains of rice are donated.
Food Force.
Download and take part in a simulation of how the WFP works.
Read frugal cooking recipes for ideas on making the most of what's already in your pantry.
Try not to waste food; plan meals well in advance so that all food you purchase is used before it spoils.
Buy food that is in season; it will last longer, costs less, and supports local growers.
Hold a potluck meal with friends to make your dollar stretch further.
This also represents the ability for communities to come together to share in times of need.