room.Make a solid plan.
How will you deal and overcome the hurdles that come your way in the business world?
You ve got to have effective strategies in place.
Offer a product or service that can be used on a regular basis by your consumers, so that you will have repeat business.
The goal is to create a long-term consumer base so that you will have a mountain of residual and passive income.
Find a coach or mentor who will support you.
Your coach or mentor should already be at the level that you are striving for.
He or she will help you gain access to the blueprint of success in your particular industry.
You will avoid time-wasting and money-wasting mistakes by having a good mentor.
Collaborate with a good team of individuals with the same goals as you.
This is especially important in your first few months to the first year in your learning phase.
Having a support group will encourage you and you will also be learning from others who are in the same situation you are in.
Use effective marketing tools.
You will also need to implement online marketing systems that can work for you 24 hours a day and 7 days a week.
One such tool is Google s Adwords.
Select an area of your home in which to set up your home office, which will be the nerve centre of your new business.
You can convert a spare bedroom, shed or garage if need be.
Plan to keep your business equipment, tools and supplies in there and not spread around the house.
Be sure to purchase separate supplies for home and business, to discourage family members coming into your business space to search for items they need.
Create a home office.
This is not as difficult as one would think.
Every home office's needs are different, but there are some fundamental staples that all require.
You will want to have a clean, noise-free environment that has good lighting and is free from distractions.
This will help keep you more focused and productive.
You will need a desk and chair.
The size of your desk will depend on what its function is. You will want a place to store all your information about your customers such as a computer and/or a filing cabinet.
Communications: You will also want a phone, fax/scanner/copier, Internet connection, and any other communication tools you might need at hand.
Meeting and storage space: If, like many home-based businesses, yours will focus on services or affiliate products, there will be no need for storage.
However, if you are planning to sell stocked products and ship them yourself, then make sure you have room to store them all.
If you plan on holding meetings outside of your home, there will be no need for a conference room.
If you are going to be seeing clients in your home, and don t have a conference room, then be sure to keep your place clean and neat at all times.
Put together a business wardrobe.
You need not be a fashion plate or break the bank, but you must have neat, clean attire appropriate to your industry.
Make sure you attend to personal grooming before getting dressed for appointments.
Be sure you have research the tax laws and requirements of your country and your local jurisdiction.
Set up a bookkeeping system, and be prepared to hire an accountant if necessary.
Set time aside everyday to work for your business.
Plan your days off ahead of time so you aren't temped to ignore work on any given day because "you don't feel like it".
Make a plan and work it.
A to do list is a great way to stay on task.
Make sure your family knows the office is a business and off limits.
If you have family members, especially small children, let them know that they are only to interrupt you in an emergency.
Establish rules, such as "do not disturb Mummy when she's on the phone", and "do not come into the office without knocking".
Do not talk to or yell at the children, the spouse or the dog while on a business call.
First impressions say a lot.
Network with other people to get the word out about your business and gain inspiration from like minded people.
There are online networking sites and usually locally based groups for business owners.
Decide if you can your home address and phone number for business, or if you will need a separate, dedicated business phone number and perhaps a post office box for work related mail.
You must have an email address exclusive to your business