yourself.The First Kiss Fun Game : This is a fun game and can be a great ice breaker for the guests who do not know each other.
You can start this game by asking the maid of honor to tell the story of the first time she was kissed by her finance.
The other guests can contribute as well.
To make it fun you can have a panel of guests who will rate the best kiss story.
The one who gets the highest points turns out to be the winner.
Here you need to keep in mind that the maid of honor should not feel embarrassed.
Paper Bag Peek-A-Boo Game : For this game you will need some paper bags.
Hand out one bag each to your guests and ask then to cover their face with the bags.
Then the host will start by asking the guests to remove one thing at a time.
You can start it with watch,earing..etc. Then move on to clothes and other things.
The smart ones will be smart enough to take off their bags over their heads and see what others are up to and have a hearty laugh on those who innocently keep removing their accessories and clothes.
The one who does not take the bag off, will get a nice gift for her innocence.
Love Will Melt Your Heart Game : Prepare ice cubes by placing a heart-shaped candy in each cube before they freeze.
Then drop each ice cube into a dixie cup and distribute to guests.
Instruct them that, without touching the ice cube itself, they can use any body part to warm the cup to try and melt the ice.
The first person to melt their ice cube enough to retrieve their candy wins the game.
Hilarity ensues as guests use various body parts to try to get their ice to melt.
Game can run simultaneously while food is being served, etc.
Toilet paper Bridal Shower Games : This is yet another fun game to impress your maid of honor.
This game could be well played with higher number of guests group say 50.
First make teams of 10 to 12 members each.
Then hand out toilet papers rolls to each of the team.
Ask them to select a bride from amongst their team.
Then within 30 minutes they are suppose to dress their bride.
After 30 minutes the real bride can select the best dress.
The team who wins get small party favors as prizes.