allergies!Take a day to clean completely clean your house.
You normally shouldn't do this, but before you follow these steps, wash the dishes, sweep the floor and all that Jazz!
If you have clutter, let it be.
Stuff like picking up wrappers and all the basics.
When you get this done, pat yourself on the back.
This is the hardest part of your cleaning plan.
Make charts for each family member and have them keep them in their room.
This should clearly tell them their chores.
If they make a mess in a room, they should always pick it up.
If not, take a sticker off their chart.
Now that the kids know their chores, let's focus on you.
You could keep a journal of the things you need to do.
You should only spend about 30 minutes cleaning a day, or less.
Your list would be things like sweep the floor, do the dishes, just to keep your house looking neat.
If you want you can choose a day to do all of the laundry, or do it everyday.
You could also pick one deep cleaning day, and one off day.
Put your own personal spin on how you want to clean.
Check the kids' chores around 7 :00pm each night.
This gives them time to do their chores, and they still feel like they have freedom.
Make your deadline for chores clear.
If not done, you could make them go to bed right then, or a punishment of your choice.
If they continue not to clean the next day by 7:00pm you could give a harder punishment such as groundings.
Don't worry, as soon as you take their electronics away, they will bust out the broom!
At the end of the week, give your children a dollar for every stick they have earned.
They will feel proud that they have earned money, and will be encouraged to to keep cleaning and may want to extra work for extra stickers!
Motivate and try not to make cleaning something negative for your kids.
Do not yell at them to clean, or else they will associate yelling and cleaning.
Praise them once they do their chores.
Try to make their MCP fun for them by decorating the boards.
Remember, you want your kids to like to clean so that when they grow up, they will keep this habit.
If you associate cleaning and praising at a young age, they will think of cleaning a lot differently than many people.
Maybe it's not that your kids don't want a clean habitat; maybe it's just that they have a bad opinion of it because they do not think it's fun.
The trick is to make them think it is fun!
Try to remind them once throughout the day to do their room chores, but understand it is their responsibility and you cannot make them because you want them to do this independently.
# Be a good role model and stick to your MCP.
On your MCP you could have rooms listed and maybe two to three things under each room.
If it was the kitchen you would write under it 1.
Sweep Floor 2.
Do dishes 3.
Clean counter tops.
Work on the clutter.
Every day or every other day, make a side note to yourself to go through 10 minutes of clutter.
The clutter is mainly your responsibility, but if your kids want extra stickers, this is a great way to earn them!
While you are sorting your clutter and you find an object you would like to keep, go put it away right then ! If you find something that is of no value put it in a box, and every couple days to a week throw everything in the garbage box away.
If it is something of value, pack it away in a box marked Garage Sale.
When your clutter is completely gone, have a garage sale!
Don't be embarrassed that you are selling so much clutter, be proud that you are now clutter free ! If you would rather do this privately, take it to a local pawn shop, or come up with your own method.
Whatever you do, do not let the garage sale boxes sit around long.
Doing so will add to your clutter!
When your clutter is gone, celebrate!