house.Know your enemy's plans.
As soon as you can, scout the map for your opponent's location.
This will give you some information about the enemy's base and what it's producing.
There are two ways to do this, and both have their pros and cons:
When you think you have enough workers to support your base early in the game, send one of them to scout out your opponent.
Scouting early can tell you if you want to rush or climb up the tech tree.
If the base is far away, your opponent may already have defenses up and a rush won't cut it.
As soon as your first basic attack unit is produced, send it out to scout out your opponent.
This will save you from having to use a worker to scout, but your opponent may already be rushing your base, so even if you scout out your opponent with the attack unit, it will most likely be too late, unless you plan to rush too and have a multitude of units at your base.
Once you have scouted out the enemy base and have a feel for his strategy, try to do your best to counter it.
If he is, for example, expanding his territory quickly and not producing a lot of units, try to gather up a large force and rush his bases before he can gain the upper hand by controlling most of the resources and climbing up the technology tree faster than you.
Another example is countering your opponent's units.
Every unit can be countered.
For example, Firebats are cheap, but powerful, splash units that are excellent against Zealots and Zerglings.
Probes protected by Cannons and some troops.
Protect your workers.
Your opponent could drop a couple of Reavers or Tanks on your workers, which could cripple your income.
Build a few cannons/turrets around your workers.
Expand your territory.
As soon as you feel safe to do so, make another base near resources.
Defend your expansions well, because they will just be wasted investments if wiped out
Micro your units.
Place the units with a ranged attack behind the melee units.
This will minimize the time the melee units take to arrive at and attack the target.
Also, spread your combat units out so that any enemy units with the splash damage attribute will not affect too many of your units.
Do your best to learn hotkeys to increase your APM (actions per minute) in order to micro-manage effectively and do more things at once.
Pressing 'm' to build a Marine for example, is much faster than locating a Barracks and clicking the "Train Marine" button.
It is also faster to have unit output buildings (Hatcheries, Barracks, Factories, Gateways, etc.) hotkeyed so that you can recreate your armies during a battle.
Instead of taking your eyes off the battle to build units at your base, for example, you can take a second to press '1' and then 'm' to build a Marine at your Barracks which you hotkeyed as '1' earlier.