recourse.Come prepared.
Take a sleeping bag and pillow if you aren't going to have an available bed to sleep in.
If you don't have a sleeping bag, you can just use pillows and blankets.
And make sure to bring all of the necessities, like your toothbrush, PJ's, hairbrush and any other major things.
Ask.
Ask the host about things you are unsure about bringing, like bedding, games or food.
Pack smartly.
Bring a medium-sized (not huge) bag that can hold everything you'll need!
Don't cram your stuff into a small bag, as it will likely spill out.
An overnight bag or tote bag would be perfect for a sleepover.
Make a simple list.
This will help you remember the things you need.
Here is an example of a packing list :
Face cleansers.
Make-up remover.
Pajamas
Money (If your going out)
Socks, underwear, (Bras if you need to wear them)
Make-up
Phones and chargers (To save space, charge them the day before)
Facial masks to have a pamper party!
(optional)
iPod/MPPlayer (In case you get bored)
Cameras
Clothes for the next day
Toothpaste and toothbrushes
Pens and paper (If you get bored)
Sleeping bag
Pads/Tampons (For precautions)
If you will be going outside, a jacket
Don't forget your deodorant and body spray!
(You don't want to stink the next day)
Slippers or socks, so you won't have to walk around someone else's house in bare feet
Medicine, if you have asthma or a serious infection, tell the parents or guardian of the host.
Take some movies.
Not necessarily Horror but certainly not sad flicks, which can bring down the mood and could make some of the other guests want to go home.
If you are packing for a child, your child may want to pack themselves but make sure they have all the necessary items which are :
Clothes for the next day
Underwear
Pajamas
Toothbrush and toothpaste
Sleeping bag and/or pillows (You may want to check with the host's parents or guardian)
Hairbrush and/or comb
Any medicine (You know best)
A list of Contact numbers and times they can call them
Other things which your child can take are :
A teddy bear/favorite comfort toy.
Sweets (check with the host's parents for childrenand under)
Present (if it is a birthday sleepover)
Phone (great for staying in touch)
Video games (if the host has the console)e.g. Nintendo Wii, Xbox, etc.
Console for games
Some party food (check with host's parents) e.g. mini pizzas, potato chips
Swimsuit (if going swimming)
Deodorant (If they are old enough to wear it)
Hair bands and clips (if wanted)
Make sure you check your child's bag secretly in case they decide to take lots of toys, like some children may do.