website.A suitable box for reusing - strong, compact but large enough
Select a box that will allow you to pack no more than 10 lbs (about 4.5 kg).
In the packing industry, the right size box for china and glassware is often called a "dishpack" barrel, or dish barrel.
[1]
It is important to keep the size compact because packing too many pieces in a single box makes the box difficult to move, and provides a temptation for movers to put a larger, heavier box at the bottom of a stack when loading into trucks, which can mean that your best china ends up sitting under too much weight.
Foam peanuts make for good cushioning
Put cushion foam or packing peanuts at the bottom of the box before adding any wrapped pieces.
Wrapping an individual plate
Wrap individual items in newspaper or bubble wrap.
Wrap each piece separately for added protection.
If you wrap more than one item per sheet of paper, be sure that no china or glass areas come into contact with other glass or china.
Ensure adequate layering and excellent padding around each item - this isn't the time to skimp on wrapping materials.
Showing the gap space for packing
Pack the wrapped items into the box.
Arrange the wrapped items in the box, with cushion foam or scrunched-up paper placed between each piece.
Ensure that the sides of the objects being packed are at least 1" (2.5cm) away from the edge of the box.
Certain items require special attention:
Place plates on edge
For plates, place them on their edge, as they are much stronger packed that way.
Put scrunched up newspaper at the bottom of a box carrying plates, and then slide cardboard, bubble wrap, or foam between them.
It is recommended to wrap each plate in a few sheets of paper to keep them well padded and to prevent them from coming into contact with each other.
A small china keepsake lidded dish with bubble wrap
Always put some form of cushioning between the lids and the main portion of lidded items, such as sugar bowls, teapots, and casserole dishes.
Once you have done that, you can wrap the item as a single unit.
Normally the glasses would be wrapped too, but they are unwrapped in this image to help demonstrate the cardboard dividers in use
Make a set of inside spacers from cardboard to keep your glassware separated.
Doing this can save them from being broken.
Also, heavier glasses should be packed on the bottom, with lighter, more fragile glasses placed on top.
Make sure all gaps are filled
Fill in all the empty areas of the box with foam, scrunched-up paper, or packing peanuts.
This will prevent the items from moving around or shifting inside the box.
Check for movement.
If there is any movement, add more stuffing to prevent it.
If you are using a shipper such as FedEx or UPS, use double boxing with packing peanuts to fill empty space between the outer and inner boxes.
Check for the potential for indentation.
If the box can be compressed in any way from items placed on it, this pressure can damage the contents.
If you can press the lid in, add more stuffing to stop it from being compressed.