areas!Typical toilet in China, heck, it's a typical toilet for most of Asia
Arrive prepared in China.
Though there is shopping on every street corner, many of the things you may be used to may be unavailable to you in China.
Bring toilet paper as most restrooms will not provide this.
Plan ahead by saving toilet paper, in advance of the trip.
Each time you have a partial roll left, place this in a baggie and toss it into your suitcase.
Six to eight small rolls will last a family of four through a two week trip.
Five-star hotels will always have western-style toilets and toilet paper.
Most larger airports will have at least one western toilet in the lavatory as well.
Take only a key to your house or a car key with you.
Leave all others at home.
Drink only Bottled Water
Bring Pepto Bismol and Immodium chewables.
Water quality in China is very poor and you may develop slight intestinal problems if you use tap water to brush your teeth, or if you eat vegetables which have not been cooked after having been rinsed in tap water.
Chew two Pepto Bismol tablets before your meal to help prevent intestinal troubles.
Bring clothes according to what season you are traveling.
China gets VERY HOT in the summer, and quite cold in the winter.
Bring plenty of clothes, but remember you can always find a laundromat to get your clothes washed, or use the laundry service at your hotel.
Beware, however, some laundry places use detergent that can irritate your skin if it is sensitive.
Having your clothing dry-cleaned instead will avoid this problem.
Remember when you take a shower, be careful not to get any water in your mouth.
It tastes normal, but could easily make you sick.
Always brush your teeth with bottled water.
Consult your physician(s) or a travel clinic in advance of travel.
Your doctor or health-care provider will determine what vaccinations you will need, depending on factors such as your health and immunization history, areas of the country you will be visiting, and planned activities.
Be sure to have your prescriptions filled before your trip.
China requires that you present a letter from your doctor indicating the need for the use of any psychotropic medicines you might be taking.
Bring antibiotics and any other prescriptions you will have to take during your travel.
Count enough for your days of travel, plus a few spare pills.
Bring all of this in the original prescription container.
The Centers for Disease Control also keep an updated page on health information for travelers to China.
[1]
Write the contact information for each of your doctors on an index card.
Be sure to take this with you during your day trips in the event you have a medical problem, and need to call home.
Stock a hip pack for each member of your party with a small roll of toilet paper, and a small bottle of hand sanitizer.
Non-alcohol hand sanitizer or wipes are best, as Chinese airport security will occasionally confiscate alcohol-based sanitizers (especially in Guangzhou).
Enclose also a granola bar, some cough drops, and some gum, if you'd like.
These will come in handy as you travel around town.
Include a flashlight since electrical blackouts can happen at any time, and you might find yourself in a dark room.