action.Find a big, rolling suitcase, and a small one that is slightly larger than an A4 piece of paper.
There are lots at your local stores, and sometimes you can find cute matching ones, too!
Start with packing clothes.
Find how many days you will be there.
You will need 2 more shirts than that, double the underwear and bra's , and pack at least 2 pairs of jeans that can be worn again and again.
Do the toiletries next.
Use a small zipped-up bag to hold them.
You will need (these are the travel sized): toothpaste, toothbrush, hairbrush, anything you use to style your hair, face wash, deodorant, shampoo, conditioner, shaving cream and a razor (razors are allowed, just not physically with you on the plane in your carry on), and other things you need.
Pack some cute accessories : Pack a few cute belts, and some necklaces or bracelets.
If it's a family vacation, there will be a lot of photos taken!
If you are doing a lot of sightseeing, you should bring a camera and the charger (if it is a long trip).
To pass time, you can take pictures of yourself and friends, and the outside of airplane windows.
Also, remember to bring any other chargers for your iPod/MP3 players, cellphones, and other electronics.
Make sure you bring any required documents to the airport- a passport (if you are traveling outside the country), airplane ticket, etc. Make sure you check that you have every document you need.
An iPod, MPplayer, or CD.
If you have an iPod/MP3 player, make a few play lists you like, so you can sleep while listening to music!
A book or magazine can pass time, that is- if you enjoy reading.
A pillow and some kind of neck support pillow if you want, but most air lines provide them.
A sweater or small blanket (most air lines provide these as well) because airplanes can sometimes get chilly.
Games, especially if you are riding with a sibling or friend.
Board games aren't recommended since the airplane ride can get bumpy.
Bring portable games (i.e. Nintendo DS) or crossword puzzles or riddle books.
This is optional, but if you like drawing or writing, you could take a pen/pens and a notepad.
Any summer homework or makeup work you have to do.
Something like a granola bar, chips, grapes, or even dried fruit to munch on if you don't like the food there.
But remember that most airlines don't allow you to bring food from outside the airport onto the plane for security issues.
If you forget to bring anything with you, remember that as long as you have cash you can buy something at a store once you arrive at your terminal.
Emergency items: tampons/pads and any other feminine hygiene items, any medication (ask your parents to check whether or not this is OK) and anything else that you feel you might need for your journey.
Cash- cash from your country and cash for your destination (if you need to buy something urgently at the other end, you may not have time or it may not be convenient for you to find a cash exchanger).