it.Make sure you know exactly how many days you will be away.
If its for 5 days, pack for six just in case.
Make a list of everything you use in a day.
Pack for the amount of days you will be staying plus one.
Start with your location : Will you be at a friend or family members home where you can use their items sometimes?
Or will you be at a hotel where not everything is provided?
Doing laundry can be time consuming and expensive and most up scale hotels only offer a Laundry Service.
This service may be great, but it's expensive!
Start with your head : Shampoo and conditioner, gel, spray, your own brush and comb (you never want to be stuck with lice), etc.
Pack for your face.
Do you use creams or cleansers that you will need?
Bring a toothbrush and sample sized tube of paste.
If you don't have a toothbrush holder use a baggy.
Pack nothing over 100ml in your hand luggage - decant all larger toiletries into 100ml bottles, or the security at the airport will take them.
Pack clothes.
Try to keep it somewhat neutral so that anything can go with anything, and don't forget under clothes and pajamas!
(You may want to have some extra underclothes, so pack for as many days that you are staying plus at least two - it never hurts to be safe.)
A good thing to do is pack four pairs of shorts/skirts and 9 tee-shirts or vest tops and matching flip-flops..
Also, remember to pack those all too important bathing suits if this guest has a pool.
Remember to pack beach towels, sunscreen and other pool things.
Shoes: Try to pack so that you have outfits that match the shoes you wear to the location, and if not try to only pack one other pair, it really saves space.
Is there a pool or beach?
You probably only need to pack one pair of flip-flops.
Include other things like medications you'll need proof that these are yours if you are going to an airport, so take a prescription form or something with you..
Make sure you have enough to last the trip plus a day or two.
Pack electronic gear.
Remember your cell phone and its charger.
This is especially important if you are very far from home--you don't want to be out of touch.
Same with your laptop if you're bringing it.
Remember its connections and its cord that goes to the wall for charging.
As well with an iPod or mp3 player--make sure you have the USB cord and charger for it.
Remember things that will entertain you.
These include magazines, music and books.
Don't forget your underwear, spending money, and lots of lollies or treats if you are traveling in a car.