editionTo begin with, get a list of all the books you will need for the semester.
Book Title and Author are both needed unless you happen to have the ISBN number already.
It is also useful to get the price your bookstore is charging for these books as comparison later.
If you haven't already, take the list of titles and authors and find the ISBN numbers for each of them.
This will save you time later if you decide to order your books online and considerably narrow the options when choosing the correct edition.
With the information in your hand, you can submit all the ISBN numbers you need and get a quote.
Many times, the website will tell you not only what the prices of all the books are, but if you would do better buying from different sources.
Many of the websites also include the shipping in the final cost when deciding if one store is a better deal than another.
If you are happy with the discount you would get from an online purchase, then look no farther.
Purchase your books online.
If you have looked online and the prices for all your books are comparable to the prices at your local campus bookstore, then don't hassle with buying them online.
It is often worth an extra $10 or $20 for the convenience of speaking to a live person and for book-buy-back programs.
Enter the bookstore, preferably with a form of payment, and the intention to actually purchase a book(s).
Approach the counter with a positive attitude and with information ready.
Be mindful of the other customers in the store.
Don't demand immediate service, as they have been waiting patiently, just as you will have to.
Be brief.
Hand the information to the employee and give any additional instructions in a simplistic manner.
Speaking in the native dialect is preferred.
Make sure you tell the employee all the classes that you will require books for, as it will be extremely time consuming and annoying for the employee to go back and forth from front to back.
Don't price out the books on the counter in front of the employee.
This is also time consuming.
(Remember there is a line behind you.)
Don't act shocked at the price of the books.
It is now 2007, and books are expensive along with everything else.
Plus, the bookstore employee has heard every single wise-ass remark you might come up with.
There are no new ones.
To try will simply annoy the person who is trying to help you.
Some bookstores will try to have the lowest prices available, but remember that they are businesses too, and they need to make money, so don't expect them to lower the prices just for you.
Many other students need books too (again, note the line behind you).
Used books may not always save you money.
If there is a bundle of new textbooks available, it will probably save you money -- and headaches -- to buy the new book bundle.
Your instructor likely chose the book and any supplements sold with it for a reason.
Bite the bullet and purchase the package the instructor ordered.