time.The first issue is round trip vs. one way.
In looking into this one should consider that to rent a vehicle to go one way will have a higher cost that the round trip rental due to drop charges by the rental company.
Consider this as well as the flight costs for the return trip home against the additional fuel and living costs in going round trip.
Although not necessarily a cost factor in itself there is the issue of time.
Figure that such a trip will take about 6 days each way, depending on route, stops and driving style.
Although obvious, consider that a round trip will take twice the time, give or take.
Rental vs. Personal vehicle for the trip is the second thing that should be considered.
You are looking at a trip in the ballpark of 5000 to 8000 miles.
Here are some questions to ask and think about, rental cost, limited vs. unlimited mileage on a rented or leased vehicle, your personal vehicle condition - tires, age and mileage, etc., creature comforts of the vehicle, sound system, storage capacity, comfort of driver and passenger seating.
You may also consider the pros and cons of renting a RV or camper.
Plan your route.
Do you want to stick to interstate highways, lesser highways, local/back roads, or a combination?
Decide on daily travel distance goals, if any.
Also, how time do you want to spend on the road each day?
The daily distance traveled may vary depending on where you are or your personal preference.
At 65-70 MPH, you can reasonably cover 400 to 600 mile over 5 to 8 hours of driving time.
Also think about what can be skipped and what are must visits.
After a time, visiting the largest ball of string / tourist trap, every Harley dealership or souvenir shop may get old and add time to the trip.
Where to stay (lodging) is entirely based upon personal choice and price.
For example the campground thing may be a way to go from an economic stand point.
There is the wide range of hotel / motel options as well as the Bed and Breakfasts, hostels, family, friends.
Avoid the lower end chain motels.
Although they are cheap you may find the quality of the night s sleep lacking.
With some of the auction options open one can usually find higher quality lodging at a reasonable cost.
Also consider that very competitive rate can often be obtained at casino hotels.
The advantage to them is that they also usually have low cost food options.
But whatever the choice, it is generally wiser to have a destination and reservation in mind before you leave for the trip, or at least before you arrive at the destination.
The no reservation, find something on the road option can be interesting and enjoyable but is not preferred by many.
Eating is always a big cultural and economical part of the trip and you need to determine what is best for your travel plan.
If it is a leisurely trip with lots of stops and no rush or concerns about caloric intake, a nice sit down breakfast, lunch and dinner is okay, Consider opting for eating at local restaurants and avoiding chain restaurants that you can visit while at home.
It is usually less costly, and filled with local character.
If time, money or calories are a factor then consider eating while on the road.
A supply of fruit, healthy snacks and consumables that are easily stored for breakfast and lunch with a sit down evening meal may be the way to go.
Also consider the option of stocking up at the local grocery store.
This can save considerable time, money and will afford an option for picnic like stops on the route.
Clothing packed is really a matter of when and where you are going.
If taking a southern route in the middle of summer think light clothing.
A more northern route may require a little heavier clothing.
Remember that higher altitudes will result in cooler temperatures, especially at night.
The advantage to doing this type of trip is that you can error on the side of caution without lugging extra bags around airports or paying additional fees.
Also consider that a number of the places that you stay will have laundry facilities.
If traveling alone there is not much of an issue with travelmates.
Many find that much time alone to be unnerving.
It also requires a level of attentiveness as to your situational surroundings.
Should you opt for a travelmate(s) there are things that need to be addressed before leaving.
In the development of the travel plan there should be agreement on the destination, stops and objectives of the trip.
Keep in mind that there will be a 24/7 situation between the group and that things can sour.
Part of that will be determined in what the relationship of the travelers is.