pool.Obtain information about Canada.
You can look into websites, travel guides and blogs to learn about the places to visit, the sights to see and the activities to do while in Canada.
It also pays to know any travel advisories so you can decide whether or not to pursue the trip.
Decide the length and inclusive dates of your vacation.
This will determine a whole lot of other things, including your budget.
From here, you can also predetermine if the trip is feasible, considering you have a family to attend to, a business to run, or a job to take care thereafter.
Create an itinerary for the trip.
Indicate the places, activities, and costs and chart them on a time-line based on step two.
This will help you stick to your schedule and budget, thus eliminating side-trips you can't afford time- and money-wise.
Secure and prepare your travel documents like Visa, passport, IDs, credit cards, etc. You may ask the help of a travel agent to help you with these.
A detailed map is also a helpful document to bring.
Prepare your travel budget.
If you can apply for a travel loan, great.
If you have ready cash, better.
Canada's currency is the Canadian dollar, but US dollar and other primary currencies can easily be exchanged or traded.
Credit cards and debit cards are also widely accepted.
There are also quite a number of banks that process international fund transfers and withdrawals.
Pack for the trip.
The inclusive dates of your trip and the places you want to visit will guide you on what clothes to bring.
Bring one set each for day trips, night outs, church visits, swimming, etc. Pack light - in small amounts/quantities.
If you have the penchant for adventure, do not bring everything but do some quick shopping in Canada for toiletries and additional clothes shortly after you've arrived.
Also, bring your medications and a first-aid kit.
Choose your bags well.
A poorly designed bag will be difficult to handle or uncomfortable to carry.
Bring a check-in bag with wheels or something that is easy to carry around, as well as a bag or two you can use as carry-on.
Place inside your carry-on bags essential toiletries, medicines, snacks, and entertainment stuff like toys and books, especially if you bring your kids with you.
Secure airline tickets beforehand.
This way, you can avail of discounts and promos, as well as select the best seat.
It is also possible to buy tickets at the last minute, as they are cheaper, although a good seat may not be guaranteed available.
Make hotel reservations.
Choose where you're going to stay.
If you're visiting Canada for shopping, city life or business trip, then it's best that you get a hotel at the heart of the metropolis.
If you're visiting Canada for outdoor adventures like trekking, fishing, etc. a resort, inn or cabin near these activities is ideal.
Plan for transport modes.
Decide how you want to go sightseeing - whether by public transport , for-hire car or others.
If you want to hire and drive a vehicle, be sure you have an international driver's license with you.
If possible, get a GPS-equipped car.
Keep your home protected from burglars.
If everyone at home goes with you, decide how you are going to keep your house secure while you're away.
Make sure you have installed and activated the needed alarms and security systems.
Have your pets cared for by neighbors or friends.