kitCheck the group's calendar first before planning any activity.
That way, you can see what days already have activities scheduled.
Glass blowing workshop
Pick a day and time convenient to you, confirm with the place you wish to go, and contact another people involved with leading the activity.
Post to your group's list all the details, including (no particular order here) :The ages the activity is appropriate for, if there are any restrictions on age, e.g. nobody under five may participate, or if kids over or under the age range are allowed to come as well!
Frontier Culture Museum, Staunton, VA
Get directions to the location if possible as they are very helpful !
Ask for a notice by whatever date you choose, and include your email address if you need to know who will be coming.
If there's no limit, just state that.
Make it clear that this will be "first come first on the list" if group size is limited but anyone who doesn't make it this time might want to volunteer to arrange a second trip, and you can provide them with the contact information.
Make it clear what any costs will be, and if they are per child, per family, etc. If you need to collect the money in advance, give a clear cut-off for when you need the money, where to send it, etc.
SPCA tour
Make your own policy about cancellations--if you need a minimum attendance to have the activity, and have just that number, and someone cancels, you might want to state that you cannot return the money, or you can refund the money and try to get more people signed up, or you can hold all the money and try to reschedule, etc. If you needed a minimum and have more than that and one family's cancellation won't be a problem, then return the money.
That's all up to you, but make it clear in your message so there are no misunderstandings.
State whether you want exact change, checks, etc, so people will be prepared if you will be collecting money at the event.
State that if the event has a set time, it is not possible to join the group late !
Post a list summarizing the event, and listing those who are signed up so any omissions or changes can be made.
Help things go smoothly for the organizer by :
Include your name, your child(ren)'s name and age(s), and the date and time you prefer, if there are choices.
If the organizer wanted to do name tags for some of these activities, he or she would need the kids' names, but it's also nice just to have the list for the day of the event, so they can see if everyone is there and the event can start.
Remember that the person arranging for the activity is a busy parent, and may lose an email once in a while, so if you don't hear back or don't see your name on the list, you might try contacting them again directly.