foodPick a theme.
There are a huge amount of themes for 13th birthdays, including:
Sleepover
Pool Party (at your home pool or a community pool)
Retro Party (from the's, 60's, 70's, 80's, 90's, etc.)
Theme Party ( Hawaiian , Hollywood , etc.)
Murder Mystery Party
Spa Party (at home or at a professional spa)
Makeover Party
A Shopping Spree party (hit the local mall with your friends)
A Movie Party (watch a movie at the theatre or at your house)
A Camp-out (in the wilderness or your backyard )
Game Show theme ( American Idol , Survivor, Amazing Race, America's Next Top Model , etc.)
Go to an Amusement Park
Go horseback riding
Have a dance party (at your house or a community center)
Have a beach party
Go to a concert
Go to a sports game (baseball, football, soccer, etc.)
Go bowling
Play lazer tag
Plan the date.
You'll want to pick a perfect date to have your 13th birthday party on.
Ideally, it should be around your real birthday, but it's not necessary.
Try and have your birthday party on a weekend, or at least on a Friday night.
You could also hold it on a day where you don't have school.
Be careful if your birthday is during summer, spring, or winter break, as some of your friends may be on vacation.
Also, know who else is having a party around the same time as you.
You don't want to have your friends torn between going to your birthday or another person's birthday if they're on the same night.
Know who you're inviting.
Decide who you want at your party.
Do you want it to be co'ed (girls and boys), all girls, or all boys?
How many people do you want to invite?
Do you want 5-10 of your closest friends, or everyone in your grade?
Talk it over with your parents and make sure that they approve your final decision.
Send out the invitations . You can either write out the invitations by hand, email them out to your guests, or tell them in person or by calling them.
You could also use free services on the internet that create invitations, such as Evite.
Get the food.
Plan what you are going to need food-wise.
You don't want a bunch of hungry 13 year olds turning up to a party with no food.
Chips, candy, pretzels, pop, juice, fruit, and chocolate work great for finger food.
You can also have little appetizers such as sausage rolls or buffalo wings.
If you're going to have your guests stay for a real meal (lunch or dinner), either order in some pizza, sushi, or Chinese food, or take them out to a restaurant.
If you're serving them breakfast, make sure to have pancakes and/or waffles, bacon, sausage, eggs, etc. Also, don't forget to have a dessert of some sort, whether it be a cake, cupcakes, brownies, pie, ice cream, etc.
Decorate ! Decorating your party space isn't essential.
It's more important if you're having a theme party, but it's always nice to have some little decorations, even if it's only a couple balloons.
Decorate as little or as much as you want (and as much as you can take financially).
Twister
Wink Murder
Truth or Dare
Scavenger Hunt /Treasure Hunt
Karaoke
Trivia