home.Caribbean Destinations - St. Marteen
Plan your trip.
Will you be traveling through many parts of the Caribbean or simply en route to your final destination where you will enjoy the majority of your trip?
As many of you may still be researching the perfect Caribbean destination, here are some pointers that will help you in your efforts.
There are many popular on-line travel companies that offer excellent "destination guides" as part of their website.
These include the likes of the travel giants Expedia , Travelocity and Orbitz.
In addition, there are location specific travel brochures that one may request free of charge.
Please access these highly informative guides through both the Lonely Planet's Caribbean Island destinations ,as well as American Express's Caribbean electronic brochure.
This free guide will help you in all facets of your research efforts towards making your own Caribbean travel itinerary.
Select your destinations.
There are many popular Caribbean destinations.
These are some of the most popular possibilities:
Antigua - Anguilla - Aruba - Outer Islands Bahamas - Bay Islands, Honduras - Bermuda, North Atlantic - Barbados - Bonaire - Grenadines - Curacao - Grand Cayman - Cancun, Mexico - Isla Mujeres, Mexico - Cozumel, Mexico - Roat n Nevis - Martinique - Jamaica - Puerto Rico - Guadeloupe - Grenada - St. Vincent - Tobago - Dominican Republic - St. Martin/St. Maarten - St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands - St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands - St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands - Tortola, British Virgin Islands - St. Lucia - St. Kitts Tobago - Turks & Caicos
Beautiful Caribbean Weather - Mauritius
Decide when to go.
You can enjoy a dramatically discounted "summer" by visiting the islands during the lengthy low season, mid-April to mid-December.
Prices of hotels fall by 40% or more, package deals are common and popular port towns are far less crowded this time of year.
The downside is that many of the more popular resorts close their doors during this off-season.
In addition, the trade winds aren't as prevalent in summer, so the chance of encountering oppressively muggy weather is higher.
Summer is also the hurricane season, and it is particularly bad in August and September, when some hotels, restaurants and shops close for the month.
If your primary interest is in the culture of the islands, however, this can be an ideal time to visit.
Caribbean Shopping
Know the costs involved.
If your Caribbean dream vacation includes hiking through a rain forest, snorkeling along colorful coral reefs, exploring Mayan ruins and sunbathing along the miles of picturesque white sand beaches -- you will find it all here, but paradise does have its price.
The cost of living is relatively low on most Caribbean islands, but by the time you add up your expenses for activities, lodging, meals, transportation and a little nightlife, a Caribbean vacation could cost more than you might expect.
It is recommended that you write a chart out with all these facets of travel in order to realistically plan your Caribbean trip.
By doing this, you will have a clearer picture of where you could save money.
For example, if you are normally a first-class flyer perhaps you could think of allocating more money into a higher class resort with the money you would save flying coach.
Write a vacation spending plan
Make a Caribbean travel spending plan.
If you are on a tight budget, review these pointers:
1) Island choice: Choose your Caribbean island wisely, as there is a huge difference in price.
Flights to Jamaica and Cancun are plentiful, therefore the price is going to be significantly lower than if you fly to the Dominican or St. Marteen.
) Consider a Caribbean cruise instead: This is a marvelous option should you be interested in seeing many different islands.
Great for the whole family , but can also work well if you are single.
Many cruises cater specifically to singles; Club Med vacations were built upon this tradition.
) Look for package deals, where your flight, hotel and car rental if needed, are priced as a single unit.
This will invariably save you time and resources in planning out your perfect Caribbean vacation.
) Remember to always barter.
This is after all the Caribbean islands, where bargaining is the rule not the exception.
Do not over tip!
This can be a mistake, as it could signal thieves in the area into thinking you are an easy target.
) Remember that Summer and Fall months are the cheapest, though this is also hurricane season.
Most expensive time is during March and April, as the Caribbean Spring Breakers are out in full force with many hotels sold out.
Caribbean Hotels & Resorts
Choose your lodging.
After selecting your destination, your island(s) of choice, it is then time to find the Caribbean hotel that will meet your needs.
This is a rather critical step, as where you stay will greatly dictate the activities available to you.
The majority of travelers vacationing in the Caribbean stay between 3-7 days.
On the internet, one can simply go to any of the reputable on-line travel companies and type in the destination city.
From this, you will get a list of hotels and resorts in the area.
The advantage of an on-line travel provider is that you can easily sort the "results" out; such as by hotel star rating, lowest to highest price, sort by amenities,etc. Here is what to look for:
1) Does the resort cater to families?
) If you are going there to party and meet new friends, or Spring Break, than look for the hotels known to be "hot spots" for the younger crowd.
Read the hotel reviews.
Trip Advisor is the leading and most trusted site, providing literally millions of travel reviews, helping you make more informed decisions.
All Inclusive
Consider a Caribbean all inclusive deal.
An "All Inclusive" is where you pay one low price that includes your lodging, food, drinks and recreation.
They even include your tips.
Most "All Inclusives" in the Caribbean include all the recreation you could ask for, though things like scuba diving may have an added charge.
Also, know that "All Inclusives" rarely will include spa treatments even though you book at a "spa resort all inclusive."
Book Caribbean all inclusive vacations far in advance for best deals.
Though it is known that "last minute deals" can save money, this is only because the hotel is trying to fill the space last minute as well.
By waiting like this you run the enormous risk of not getting a room at all.
In addition, these "last minute" travel bargains will almost never be "choice" rooms, rather these are the rooms no one else wanted.
Booking in advance simply outweighs any benefits of waiting.
Tasty Caribbean dining - Shrimp Ceviche
Caribbean Dining.
Caribbean restaurants are plentiful and represent a wide range of local and international dining options.
Caribbean recipes combine African, Amerindian, French, East Indian, and Spanish styles of cooking.
These traditions are a reflection of the early settlers of the region.
Rice is the staple of a Caribbean meal - you'll find the rice on each island may be a little different.
It is eaten with a variety of sauces and beans.
Another Caribbean recipe favorite is called "Cook-up", or Pelau.
This dish combines meats like chicken, beef, pig tail, saltfish, and vegetables with rice and pigeon peas.
Seafood is one of the most common Caribbean recipe delicacies in the islands due in part to their geographic location.
Each island will likely have its own specialty.
Some prepare lobster, while others prefer certain types of fish.
Barbados is known for its "flying fish," while Trinidad and Tobago is known for its cascadura fish and crab.
Conch is common among many islands including the Bahamas, though some islands have strict laws on how conch are fished.
Turtle was once considered an island delicacy though since 1990's most of the Caribbean islands have made any sea turtle fishing, capture and sales illegal.
Lime and garlic are commonly used in Puerto Rico and Cuba.
Other common flavors throughout the region include cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
There are many locals that prepare Caribbean vegetarian food should your diet require this, especially in places like Jamaica.
What is noteworthy about Caribbean dining is this - tourism being the number one staple in all the region dictates that they will have a restaurant for almost any international food.
It may require some search, but many Caribbean restaurants have a great variety of tasty foods to enjoy.
Most of the larger resorts offer quite a large selection of dining options.
Caribbean foods purchased in the markets are surprisingly cheap, if you have a place to cook it.
Exploration & fun, Caribbean style!
Plan the activities you'll enjoy.
Listing all the wonderful places to see and things to do in the Caribbean could literally fill up volumes of pages.
Adding difficulty to the task lies in the fact that each island has something unique to offer.
This part offers a simple overview of what the major resorts in the Caribbean offer.
Seek specific activities and events out at each of the locations you plan on traveling to in this way, you will have an updated list you can count on.
In polls of Caribbean Travel, the highest priority of most vacationers is the beach.
They want dazzling sand where the warm turquoise sea mirrors an azure sky.
Snorkeling in the Caribbean
They also look for beach activities such as swimming, para-sailing, skin diving, scuba diving certification , kayaking, sail boat excursions, jungle rides, cave exploration, sightseeing and shopping.
If in the right location, such as the Mexican Caribbean, you will not want to miss seeing the Mayan ruins, such as at Tulum or Chichen Itza - large pre-Columbian archaeological sites built by the Mayan civilization.
Additional Caribbean activity plans can be made through Viator.
Research, plan and book Caribbean activities, events and tours with this highly reputable company - they are currently the largest "travel activities & tours" company in the world, listingseparate "things to do in the Caribbean.
Consider some of the following activities below when planning what to do on your trip--
Dolphin Discovery - Isla Mujeres - DesiTerry
Dolphin Discovery.
Of particular fondness to children and adults, is the experience of playing and interacting with the dolphins.
There are known reputable companies that specialize in dolphin encounters, such as "Dolphin Cove in Jamaica" , "Dolphin Excursions in Bahamas" and "Dolphin Discovery" ,with dolphin adventure locations in Cancun, Isla Mujeres, Riviera Maya, Grand Cayman, Cozumel, Vallarta and Tortola.
Spa treatments - for both him and her
Caribbean Spas.
Many of the leading hotels in the Caribbean now have serious spas, not just a few treatment and beauty rooms, but full-service operations led by leading spa companies.
So you can expect to relax in the lap of luxury.
Even side-by-side, on his and hers beds, if you re feeling romantically inclined.
These fabulous spa services are always "extra" charges, so inquire at your destination resort for rates and services.
World-class Caribbean Golf
Caribbean Golf.
The islands have some of the world's most beautiful and challenging Caribbean golf courses, and hosts many major and local tournaments.
Most golf courses in the Caribbean have in-season and off-season prices, as well as guest and non-guest prices (many courses are part of resorts or hotels) and member and non-member prices.
Some of the more famous Caribbean golf clubs require carts and a mandatory caddy.
Most offer club rentals.
You should always call, email, or visit a specific courses website (if available) for the latest information, greens fees and tee times.
Nightclubs and Caribbean entertainment
Caribbean Nightlife & Entertainment.
The Caribbean offers plenty to do when the sun goes down.
But not all Caribbean islands have non-stop nightlife.
Most all large Caribbean cities have something for everyone, from sophisticated hotel lounge bars to Caribbean dance clubs crowded by college kids.
If you're looking for something on the tamer side, look into what your hotel has to offer.
Many Caribbean hotels have planned activities for guests including tropical nights, beach barbecues and cocktail parties, Caribbean kids activities.
And for those wanting a crazier evening?
It is usually easy to find a "booze cruise" that goes out after the sun goes down and does not return until the wee hours of the morning.
Legal drinking age varies, though 18yrs.old is the norm.