wet.Learn camping skills.
Just reading about camping skills is not enough.
Actually learn from a knowledgeable outdoorsman or outdoorswoman.
If you are new to backpacking trips, consider joining a backpacking group or tour and ask for help.
Apply for permits or reservations.
Some popular hiking destinations require permits to use certain areas.
You may need a fishing license to go trout fishing.
If you fail to make a reservation for the hut at trail's end, you'll be out of luck.
Learn to read maps and use a compass and GPS properly.
Buy a good compass and a map of the area in which you intend to immerse yourself, and study the terrain carefully before you set out, so that you have some idea of what awaits you.
Get in the habit as you hike of looking around and checking your map so you always know where you are.
Keep track of landmarks and trailside scenery and make notes as you go on the map.
Put the map into a clear plastic bag and seal it if it is not already waterproof.
This might mean that you have to cut the map up and seal each section into a separate bag, but it keeps it clean and dry.
The Silva brand of compasses are normally accompanied by a pamphlet with detailed instructions.
Learn about your area.
This is extremely important if you are going someplace very different from your own locality.
Research what sort of weather to expect, what types of creatures (i.e. bears) and vegetation that you are likely to encounter, terrain, and possible dangers.
A guide book can be useful, if it is high-quality.
Ask a local guide what to look for, if possible.
While part of the adventure is facing the unknown, people can get themselves seriously endangered, die, or just have no fun whatsoever when they fail to plan.
Tell someone your itinerary.
Before leaving for the hike, be sure a trusted person will be alerted to your trip.
If a disaster befalls you, and you don't come back on time, he or she can alert the authorities, give information on your intended whereabouts, and so on.
Pick your travelling companions.
Problems can arise if there's a bad match of hikers.
If you have little experience, find hikers who can help guide you.
Make sure you like each other.
Choose fellow hikers who have a similar or better physical fitness level.
It can help if you have similar interests in the hike--wanting to identify local birds, or take wildlife photography, rock-climb, and so on.
Don't randomly join hikes with people you do not know or who do not seem to understand what they are getting into; they can be a liability later.
Dress for the environment and the weather.
Temperatures and weather can vary wildly; be prepared for a range of conditions.
Learn to dress warmly for cold temperatures or protect yourself from heat.
Pack your backpack sensibly.
Choose items for slim profile.
Things you will need easy access to should be on outer pockets.
Place heavy stuff in the bottom compartment and the lighter on top.
Compress items that can be squished with plastic bags, folding, or whatever will help make it smaller.
This is a fine skill and each person's pack is different.
Get used to your pack.
Two days into the back-country is not the time to find out you aren't able to carry your own pack.
Carry it around fully loaded for a few hours every day.
Take walks whenever possible with it.
If your backpack is too heavy and unwieldy in the middle of civilization, it will to be impossible to carry in the wilderness.
Do not try to carry more than 30% of your own body weight on your back--and even that might be too much.
Consider where the water source will be.
Don't assume you can drink the water unless told by an expert--a crystal clear mountain stream can be swimming with illness-causing bacteria.
Water may not be potable, or essentially inaccessible.
In a dry or hot season, springs, rivers, and streams may dry up.
In some dry areas, like deserts, you may have to bring in all of your water.
Remember that water is 8 1/3 pounds a gallon [1] ; this adds up quickly.
Purify your water.
Usually, water from a questionable source is cleaned either with a pump or with chemicals such as iodine or chlorine dioxide, both of which can be bought from a camping store or on-line.
These chemicals can sometimes double as a disinfectant for wounds, insect bites and scratches.
Bring your first aid kit.
What you will need to bring will depend on where you are hiking, when, and how long you'll be out.
But a basic kit will contain:
Bandages, both gauze and ACE bandages(for sprains and strains)
Sunscreen
Pain-killers (ibuprofen, etc.)
Tweezers
Anti-bacterial cream
Diarrhea relief
Adhesive bandages
Foot care items: athletic tape, blister bandages, "moleskin" patches, etc.
Anything else you tend to need: asthma inhaler, for instance.
Consider lighting.
Always bring a headlamp or flashlight with extra batteries and bulb (if applicable).
There are wind-up or pump lights that do not require batteries but they do not always provide as much light.
You may want a lightweight lantern or LED light for ambient light.
Travel with a friend.
Even if you're experienced, it's far safer to travel in pairs or a group.
Be sure at least one outdoorsman or outdoorswoman in your group has the experience, skills, and intelligence to keep everyone safe.
Know your tents . For backpacking, you need shelter that is proper for the terrain and season, lightweight but strong, and relatively easy to manage.
"Pop-up" tents are very popular for the beginner, although be sure to select the tent that will fit your needs.Be sure to assemble your tent before heading to the wilderness, to know how to set it, inspect for damage, and replace any missing parts.
Always have a repair kit.
Avoid packing wet tents if you can.
If you can't, don't forget to dry them out later.
Prepare your sleeping gear.
A sleeping bag is the typical way to keep warm at night.
Be sure yours is rated in the recommended temperature range of your wilderness area, as you don't want to be too hot or cold.
Buy a compression bag to help reduce bulk.
You may want to buy a sleeping bag liner to keep your bag in its best shape.
You also will likely want a sleeping pad, either blow-up or self-inflating.
All of these items will be among your heaviest, bulkiest items, so choose wisely.
A zero-degree bag should not weigh more than 3 pounds if you shop carefully.
A sleeping pad should not weigh more than 2 pounds.
Added together and on your back, that's still a heavy 5 pounds.
Try find gear well below these weights.
Pay attention to your footwear.
A foot injury will turn a wilderness journey into a crisis in moments.
Choose supportive, rugged footwear appropriate to the terrain.
Hiking boots are the usual best choice, with hiking shoes or sandals also possible good choices.
' Always break in your footwear before your backpacking trip.'
: a simple blister can cause big difficulties.
Socks are important too: be sure they cushion sufficiently and bring enough to rotate to avoid infections.
If you get a "hot spot," (starts to hurt a little), stop and deal with it right away.
You might avoid a big problem later.
Consider your food.
Backpacking in the wilderness requires lightweight, shelf-stable, high-calorie food.
Avoid food that needs refrigeration or is fragile.
Most outdoor stores, catalogs, and websites offer freeze-dried, or ready-to-eat meals that are easy to heat.
American-style MRE's (military rations) are available in a commercial version.
You can also find foods at the grocery store that are in camping-friendly form.
In addition to snacks, two or three meals a day, be sure you bring a bit more than you think you'll need.
In bear country, you will need to have a bear-resistant container and secure it properly.
Get cooking.
What will you use for heating food and beverages?
(If you are.)Some areas permit campfires or have grills on-site.
However, some locations will not allow open fires, or there will not be enough wood.
A lightweight camping stove will be useful, and is faster to cook with, especially in bad weather.
Remember you will need cooking implements, vessels, and something to eat and drink with.
Ultra-light setups usually focus on boiling water for freeze-dried meals; more elaborate cooking (frying, simmering, mixing multiple items for one dish) calls for less specialized (and usually heavier) cookware.
Your stove and cookware should not weigh more than 2 pounds.
For example, an ultralight stove = 3-6 oz, ultralight pot = 6 oz.
The latest models tend to use a lot less fuel, which will also save you weight (once you know how much fuel you need... this varies according to the menu and altitude/outside temperatures)
Use fire wisely.
Campfires can be life-saving, as well as a great comfort.
But they are also a leading cause of injury at campsites.
Be sure that you understand basic campfire-making and safety.
Have two methods for creating fire, such as waterproof matches and a lighter.
If there is a designated area, use it.
Always have the means to extinguish a fire immediately if it gets out of control.
Never leave a fire smoldering.
If open fires are not allowed, respect that rule.
Do not burn plastic.
Never pitch your tent close to the campfire--tents are flammable and meltable!
Get the sanitation in order.
You will need to be able to wash any cookware and your hands prior to cooking.
You will also need plastic bags (preferably zip-top) for any waste that needs to be packed out, such as wrappers or dog doo-doo.
Toilet Properly in the Wilderness.
Be sure to dispose of your own wastes properly.
Away from your campsite (in an area with some privacy), dig a hole about 12 inches deep.
This is the toilet area.
Food wastes, such as leftover stew, could possibly go down this hole as well.
Menstruating females should take extra care with used feminine products and not bury items such as most feminine napkins and plastic tampon applicators.
Cover with soil and rocks afterwards.
This protects the natural environment, watersheds, and prevents other backpackers from accidentally stepping in something utterly disgusting.
Note that some areas do not allow this "cat-hole" method and require you to carry out your waste using special "WAG-bags" (heavy-duty ziplock bags with cat litter and other chemicals.
Hike smart.
It's a hike, not a sprint.
Hike slower than you think you should to conserve your energy; the general rule of thumb for speed is that you should be able to hold a conversation while walking.
Take breaks every hour or so or after a difficult patch.
Stay found.Getting lost is one of the most common disasters to happen to a hiker.
Stay on the trail.
Keep your hiking group together.
Don't make unnecessary changes to your route.
Don't wander off by yourself or take shortcuts.