suppliesThink light and small - compared with westerners, Japanese people tend to travel with smaller size luggage.
As a result, there usually isn't a wide space to store large luggage in trains (including the shinkansen - the bullet train).
Coin lockers in subway stations aren't large enough to hold big suitcases either.
Subway stations in Tokyo consist of endless pathways, some include stairs (and no elevators).
Planning to use the subway with luggage in hand is not a good idea.
Bring cash - many stores and restaurants might not accept credit cards.
It's a good idea to prepare for that by bringing a substantial amount of Japanese yen in cash.
Pack a pair of shoes that you can slip off easily.
Since it's a Japanese custom to walk without shoes indoors, you might have to take off your shoes frequently.
Be sure to pack your best looking socks and pantyhose to avoid any embarrassment when you take off your shoes.
Take comfortable shoes for walking, you'll be doing a lot of that.
Carry a mini-towel in your bag for drying your hands.
Most restrooms, in spite of their extreme cleanliness, do not provide paper towels.
Carrying a mini towel is a very common Japanese thing to do.
If you want to feel like part of the crowd - Jeans are not an option while dining.
Casual clothes are fine for sightseeing, but most Tokyo citizens dress very formally - a suit or a jacket for men, Long shorts are okay for men as long as the beach look is avoided.
Women usually wear Skirts and high heels.
Revealing clothes are not common among Japanese women.
Women are likely to feel very out of place in shorts or cleavage.
Men should avoid black ties and women should avoid an all-black look - since this is the funeral attire.
Packing warm clothing is a must in winter.
The wind is freezing cold.
Your list should include Gloves, long underwear, a scarf, and a warm knitted hat.
Winter is very dry, and people with sensitive skin should pack their favorite skin lotion in abundance.
Wet season - pack an umbrella.
In the summer - cotton clothing is the best.
Most places are air-conditioned, so put a light jacket on your checklist.
Autumn and spring tips - packing light jackets and sweaters is recommended.
Evening clothing must be warmer, since the temperatures drop drastically.
Make sure to pack a converter or plug - the electricity in Tokyo is 100 volts.
American appliances can be used in Japan without a converter although they will have less power.
If your appliances are three-pronged, you need a plug since Japanese appliances are two-pronged.
You can purchase converters and plugs in the airport shops.