progress)Prepare for the surgery.
Both the mind and the body must be completely at ease and comfortable with the idea of the operation before you proceed with it.
If not, you will only get more anxious as the surgery approaches and the ride may not be smooth.
Understand the How to and What to do before the operation.
The surgeon in charge of you will hand out several pamphlets to you containing information you should know about the procedure you are about to undergo.
Read up on as much as you can, so that you know the process like the back of your hand and nothing remains that can surprise you or scare you.
Don t be shy to ask for more information from the doctor either.
Though some questions may seem inane to you, they are still important and you deserve answers on what you are facing and what to expect.
Doctors will not refuse your queries, and it is natural for you to have questions.
Makes notes if you feel like while speaking to your doctor, so that you are able to reread his answers at a later date to understand them better and relax enough to feel not-so-anxious about your upcoming surgery.
Do some post-surgery preparation as well.
Because you will feel the need for support immediately after the surgery, it is advisable to have somebody close to you receive you after your surgery and arrange to take you home.
It is even better if the person is around for a few days after the procedure, taking care of you.
The person in question need not be your partner, but should be a strong and capable person, and able to deal with stressful situations that you may find yourself in.
It has to be your choice regarding who you want around you at a sensitive time such as after the surgery.
You may even begin preparing your house for your recuperation period health food, with less salt, munchies for hungry times, pillows, magazines to while away time, movies, and the all-important ice packs.
Be prepared for some doubts on the eve of the surgery.
Since this is the moment of maximum stress, you may feel ill or irritable.
Lack of sleep is also a common issue.
Some people even develop high blood pressure due to stress.
You must deal with this effectively.
Deep breathing or meditation techniques are helpful, as is a light-hearted funny movie.
Pamper yourself and let the tension melt away from your body.
Organize good post-operative care.
With all the stress and excitement building up before the surgery, it is normal to feel drained, or even depressed after the operation.
The scarring that remains while the body heals from the operation will not be any help in lifting your spirits.
It is best to always keep in mind that the scarring is temporary, while the beautiful you will not be so.
It is traditionally seen that the first three days following the surgery are the lowest period in the patients recovery period, especially if the operation was carried out under general anesthesia.
Yet, once the swelling subsides, and the new you emerges form beneath the scars and bandages, your buoyant self should soon return.