easy.Identify the topic of your speech.
If it is up to you to select the topic, choose a subject that you know well and target it so that is appropriate for your audience.
Research your subject.
If it is not a subject with which you are familiar, start with the most general background sources that you can find.
Good examples include an encyclopedia, the Internet or a newspaper.
Know for how many minutes you have to speak.
This is very important because you don't want to risk having too little or too much to say.
You may also want to budget in time for questions at the end.
Practice the speech after it is written, to get an idea of how much time it will take you to deliver it.
Know your audience.
Discuss things that the audience might specifically be interested in.
For example, if you are giving a speech to a group of plant enthusiasts at the Botanical Gardens, speak about plants, aromatic uses of plants, famous botanists or biodiversity etc.
Write a succinct, single-sentence statement about your subject.
This is similar to a thesis statement for a written paper.
This statement is the foundation for your speech.
Outline the rest of your speech on index cards as you would outline a paper.
Do not write out the speech.
The outline is there to trigger your memory, not to give you a script.
There should be no more than 3 - 5 subtopics that support your main statement.
Make sure you know enough about each subtopic to speak briefly on each one.
Use one card for the introduction.
This will include your main statement (or some variation of it).
Use one or two cards for each subtopic and one for the conclusion which refers back to the main statement.
Write brief sentence fragments or even single words.
These words or fragments should be ones that remind you about what you want to cover for that subtopic on each subtopic card or cards.
They will act as triggers for your main points.
Tell stories.
Stories are the universal language; everyone relates to a story.
Tell as story, make a point, tell a story, make a point, etc. Stories will make your speech much more interesting.
Practice your speech in front of a friend or a mirror.
Practice looking at your audience more and your cards less.
Time the length of the speech and tailor its length as needed.
Remember - the greater crime is to bore the audience with a too long speech.
Better to have a short and well-rehearsed one than a monologue that sends everyone into reverie.
Don't pretend that you are an expert talking to your friends when you give the speech.
No one likes to listen to a make believe know-it-all.
Share information with them.
Even if most of the people in the room don't know the material better than you do.
Make eye contact with members of your audience.
Speak slowly and breathe slowly.
If eye contact is too intense for you, look just above their heads at a point such as a clock or a painting.
Try to not focus intently on one place, however, move your eyes around a bit.