hands.Talk with your family and friends.
Discuss the surgery with your family and friends and begin putting the necessary support group in place.
Tell them how you are feeling and your emotional state of mind.
Communicate with your spouse or caregiver.
Be sure to review all the steps that will be taking place before, during and after the operation.
Confirm the surgery date and make sure schedules do not conflict.
Look at your home or apartment.
Try to get your home in order by doing some cleaning, paying bills, and running errands.
Remember you may be incapacitated for one to six weeks and having your home in some order will help eliminate some of the emotional stress.
Re-arrange furniture.
Make your home patient safe by removing obstacle or furniture that may block the entranceway to the bathroom or kitchen.
You don't want wires or rugs lying around that may trip you and cause you to fall and further injure yourself.
Talk with other patients.
Speak to other surgical patients you may know and ask how they dealt with the preparations and recovery.
The more information you have on your procedure, the more empowered you will feel.
Do research.
Go on the web and research your procedure.
Find out what is being said by the professionals and what, if any, are their recommendations for dealing with the recovery process.
Pet Care.
Because you may not be able to walk around for a few days, contact your neighbors or a professional pet sitter to take care of your favorite animal.
Transportation.
Make arrangements with a friend who will be able to drive you to physical therapy, the doctor's office and for medication.
There may be a retired citizen that can do this for you.
Be sure to pay them a fair price.
Haircut.
Take care of your personal needs and pamper yourself.
Go to your favorite beauty salon and get a haircut, manicure, facial and pedicure.
Depending upon your type of surgery, you may not be able to do this for a few weeks after the operation.
Do not apply nail polish to your toes or fingers, as this may interfere with the machine that monitors the oxygen in your blood.
Soap on a Rope.
Taking a shower has to be done very carefully.
The soap on a rope could be hung over the shower.
Notebook or tape recorder.
Keep a pen and notebook or voice activated tape recorder at your bedside for reminders to yourself or your caregiver.
Learn ways to relax.
Meditation, hypnosis or just deep breathing exercises will allow your mind and your body to cope better with the surgery and heal faster.