start.Obtain apples.
Clear off at least 9 linear feet of counter space.
You'll need at least 3 ft on either side of a sink and some more besides.
Disinfect the cleared area.
Lay down clean towels on the work areas.
Apples are juicy, and you will be dealing with a certain amount of spillage no matter how careful you are, so it's best to be prepared.
A towel under the chopping board area, a towel under the jar filling area, and a towel to place the hot jars on (using it as a largish "hot pad") works well.
Set up your work areas.
You'll need a cutting area, a filling area, and a cooling area (approx 3 linear feet per area).
Wash off any dirt, etc.
Wash the apples in clean water.
Avoid using soap, as it will flavor the sauce later.
The purpose of washing is to remove dirt, leaves, etc from the fruit.
Cut the apples into fourths or even sixths.
Quarter the apples.
Don't bother to peel or remove stems, cores, seeds etc. Your colander will handle all of that later.
And the peel not only contains many nutrients, but (for red apples) also will add a nice color to your sauce that will be very different from that jar you just bought at the grocers.
For now, just concentrate on cutting the apples into uniform chunks for steaming.
Put in enough water to prevent scorching.
Place half a cup of water in the bottom of the kettle you are using to cook the apples.
This prevents the possibility of burning the apples instead of just steaming them.
Some apples are juicier than others and you can skip the water... but you'll need to experiment with your variety of apple to know how much water to add to get the finished consistency you want.
Fill the kettle and put the lid on.
Fill the kettle with quartered apples.
Place the kettle on the stove.
Place the lid on the kettle.
Turn the burner on high.
Choose your colander.
An old fashioned hand colander.
This looks like a perforated cone with a wooden pestle.
This is the most work intensive of the colanders available.
You put the apples inside and smash them through the holes.
A Foley Food Mill.
This looks like a sauce pan with a perforated bottom and a paddle with handle that is turned to press the food through the grate.
This is still quite labor intensive.
You put the apples inside, place the mill over the sauce container, and press the cooked apples through the holes.
Stems, seeds and skin are left behind, so you will need to do this in batches, removing the seeds, etc. periodically.
Victorio Strainer.
This clamps to your counter top.
You place the apples in the hopper at the top and crank the handle to corkscrew the apples through the long, cone shaped colander.
Applesauce comes out the strainer; Seeds, stems and skin come out the hole on the end.
You will need two catching containers... one for sauce, one for the unsauceable portions of the apples.
Pushing the cooked apples down to the strainer.
Applesauce squeezing out of the holes in the conical colander attachment.
A strainer attachment to a food processor (shown in the pictures) works like the Victorio Strainer, but the machine provides the cranking power, saving your arm a lot of work.
Note two containers here... one to catch the applesauce as it comes through the strainer... one to catch the stems, skin and seeds.
Send the cooked apples through the strainer.
Keep two containers under the outlets.
One for sauce, One for stems/seeds etc.
1/4 cup sugar to 4 quarts of sauce works well for tree-ripened fruit.
Add sugar or spices to the sauce if desired.
Boiling to sterilize the jars.
Sterilize the jars using one of the following methods :
Placing them, opening down, in a canner with boiling water.
Allow the jars to boil/steam for around 10 minutes.
Put the empty jars on the rack in the oven, turn it on todegrees, and leave them to heat for 10 minutes.
Put about" of water in each jar and microwave them for 4-5 minutes per jar.
Funnel Placement
Place a jar funnel in the opening of a jar.
You can use other methods for filling, but the funnel avoids a lot of mess associated with spoons, pitchers, measuring cups, etc.
Pour or spoon the newly squeezed applesauce into the jars.
Fill to "shoulder" of the jar, leaving room for the contents to expand while cooking.
Leave "headroom" in the jars.
Fill only to the "shoulder" of the jar to allow for expansion of the contents while cooking.
Ensure that the jar lip is clean, with no sauce or bits of pith on it.
Ensure that the jar lip is smooth, with no chips or cracks.
Place the lid.
Place a new, unused jar lid on the opening with the rubber seal down on the glass.
Screw on the ring.
Hold the jar lid in place with a jar ring.
Canner ready for jars.
Jars on rack, ready to lower into the hot water bath.
Place the filled jars, lid end up, on the rack in the canner.
Be certain the jars are COMPLETELY covered in boiling water.
Lower the filled jars into the hot water bath using the rack handles.
Place the lid on the canner.
Boil for at least 15 minutes for pints, 20 minutes for quarts.
(check canning books for time variances for higher altitudes etc.).
This will pasteurize the contents.
Remove the lid of the canner.
Lift the jars using the rack.
Allow the jars to cool slightly before removing them from the canner.
Remove the jars from the canner using the jar tongs.
Place the jars on a heavy towel on your counter top.
Allow the jars to cool.
You should hear the jar lids sealing closed with a little "Plink" noise when their lid oilcans down due to the cooling air inside the jar creating a vacuum.
Remove the jar rings after the jar has sealed.
Wipe away any fruit residue from the outside of the jars.
Store sealed jars in a cool, dry place for up to several years.
Rinse all utensils carefully.
There's nothing grosser (or more difficult to remove) than year old applesauce on your equipment when you do this again next year.
Use a scrub brush to help you remove all of the apple residue from the colander.
Wash the towels separately from other laundry, as apple residue can leave stains on light clothing.
Clean the counter tops and stove again.