addressConsider the reason for extinguishing the fire.
If it is a small cookfire or campfire, simply dousing it with water and covering it with soil, where available, will do the trick, but for a brush fire in dry conditions, drastic measures taken quickly can prevent a disaster.
Decide immediately whether the threat of the fire spreading exists, and if the proper authorities should be notified.
Use common sense, particularly, be certain you can contain the fire if you choose to do it without reporting it.
Consider the size of the fire.
The forestry department, fire department, or fire brigade probably won't be needed to extinguish a campfire or small trash fire.
Look at the potential fuel available to the fire.
If the fire is near a wooded area with thick, dry underbrush that is easily combustible, even if the fire is small, the fire department should probably be called.
See how the wind may effect the fire.
Gusty or high winds can drive a fire, as well as accelerating the burn rate.
If calm conditions exist and are expected to continue, you will have a better chance of controlling the blaze.
Think about the potential for damage.
If you are dealing with a blaze in an unpopulated area with little or no fuel available, the risks are not as great, and being in an agricultural area with plowed or green fields can decrease the likelihood of a fire becoming out of control.
If, on the other hand, the fire will quickly spread to an inhabited area or a wilderness where controlling it would be difficult, the risks are much greater.
Call friends, family, or neighbors if you are able and they are available.
This will give you help for fighting the blaze, as well as making someone available in the event you have an accident or become injured.
Look at what resources are available to contain the fire.
If you are near a source of water from a pressurized system, and have sufficient hoses available, use them to extinguish minor fires, and wet the potential fuel in the immediate area.
Use a tool to create a "fire break" if no water is available.
Dig a shallow trench around the perimeter of the blaze, or scrape potential fuel away, exposing bare earth.
Concentrate on the area "down wind" of the flames, since the wind will push the blaze in that direction.
Use heavy equipment, if available, to create a larger firebreak if the situation warrants it.
A farm tractor with a disk, a bull dozer, or other equipment can quickly establish a sizeable fire break.
Use buckets, pots, or other containers to carry water to the blaze if no other fire fighting equipment is available, and a stream or pond, or other source of water is nearby.