TiVoHobbiesMusicFriendsStart small.
Try not watching TV for just one day a week.
Make sure to replace that time with another activity that's equally or more satisfying.
In other words, don't replace TV time with a task you dread.
The task might be noble (such as cleaning the fireplace , or raking leaves , or giving the cat a bath ) but such endeavors are best left to when you've already phased TV out of your life.
Right now, the best way to wean yourself off of TV is to replace it with another enjoyable activity, but one that's more constructive or engaging, like reading a book, practicing to be a guitar god , or playing drown the penny with your kids.
Eventually, increase the number of days per week when you don't watch TV, until there are none (if you wish to go that far).
Don't replace old shows with new ones.
When one of your favorite shows goes off the air or you stop enjoying it, don't replace it with another show.
Instead, use that new free time to do something else, like calling on friends, doing a hobby, reading, or exercise.
Eventually, you will whittle down the shows you watch to a manageable few.
Use the TV timer.
Many TVs come with a timer feature.
When you start watching TV, decide how much time you want to spend there, and set the timer so that the TV turns off when that time is up.
This prevents you from "lingering" on the TV, or at least it's a reminder, forcing you to turn the TV back on if you want to keep watching.
If you have an older television that does not have a timer, or if you do not know how to use your TV timer, get a simple egg timer from the store.
They are cheap, easy to use, and handy for other uses in the house.
Keep a TV diary.
Bringing attention to your habit, without pressuring yourself to get rid of it, can help you realize how much time you actually waste on TV.
In fact, the very act of recording how much time you spend watching TV (and what you watch) is likely to reduce your habit.
As you write down "12:30am - Watching rerun of Friends that I've seen twice already" you might realize how much of a waste of time it is, and shut off the television, whereas normally you would just keep watching because you lose track of time.
Compare your TV time to the time you need to reach your unachieved goals.
This is a good motivation exercise.
Once you've kept a TV diary for at least a week, you'll know how much time television really takes up in your life.
Now it's time to ask yourself how you can use that time more productively.
If you're spending 20 hours a week glued to the tube, think about how much you could accomplish if you redirected that time towards something else!
Make a list of goals , or things you always complain about but never have time to do.
Things like:
Losing weight and getting fit.
Spending more quality time with friends, your significant other, or your family.
Learning or practicing a musical instrument.
Planting a garden so you can grow your own food.
An uncomfortable arrangement
Get rid of and hide TVs.
The rise in television is linked to the increase in TVs per household.
[1] Cut down on the number of TVs, and you'll cut down on TV time.
You might be met with a good deal of resistance if you live with other people who are addicted to TV, especially kids--see How to Get Your Children Away from TV --but do you really need more than one TV?
Do you really need one at all?
If you do leave a TV in the house, at least put it in an uncomfortable place, like the garage, with no comfy couch to lounge in.
Cut down on channels.
Another reason people are watching more TV is because there are more channels.
[1] Look into downgrading your cable or satellite package (and you'll save some money , too!).
Another option, if your provider offers it, is to program your TV so it only shows channels that don't suck you in--or if they do suck you in, they at least feed your brain.
Stick to news, science, and history channels.
Steer clear of entertainment, comedy, and sports channels.
Make it so that you can't access the "bad" channels unless you have a password, and have someone you trust be the only person who knows the password.
Having to ask for permission is a good way to filter your TV watching.
Decide what you would like to do for a period of time other than watch TV.
This is a critical step because if you do not find something that will keep your interest, you will fall back on your ol' faithful crutch, the TV.
Look up a volunteer program, 'check out' that book, books of CD or magazine out of the library, find a new hobby, pick a craft, introduce your self to your family or even your neighbors, or any thing else that you want to do that you are currently not doing.
You may want to schedule something during your usual TV-watching time; you cannot watch TV at your house and volunteer at the local soup kitchen at the same time.
Pick a time span that you plan to do what you picked for step #1.
Start with a small amount of time, (30 minutes, 1 hour) and then expand each day or week.
Turn off and unplug the television for the time specified in step 2.
Call you cable or satellite provider and investigate about discontinuing or suspending your service for a period of time, (weeks or months).
Make sure there are no penalties for doing this.
Follow steps #1 - #3 in the alternate activity method.