concern).In your sophomore year in high school start thinking about what universities or colleges you want to attend.
Make a list of about five school that really interest you.
Have at least one in-state school.
Research the requirement for each schools and most of the information can be found online.
Find out the ACT and SAT requirements so you will know about what score you will need before you actually take the test.
Also find the GPA requirement so that you can achieve that by the end of your junior year.
Make sure the colleges you are thinking about has your major.
Call and talk to someone in the admission office about any questions you may have.
Request more information about the school and an application.
Most schools provide online applications.
Attend college tours or visit the college to see if its really for you before you apply and pay for an application fee.
Maintain a good GPA the remainder of your high school career.
Beginning of your senior year get recommendations from your teachers and counselors.
Most schools require an essay.
Write your personal statement which is an essay about yourself and what your plans for college and in life are.
There might be a second essay which is a topic determined by the university.
Have a teacher proofread your essays and recommendations because you want to be professional as possible.
A lot of mistakes can harm your chances of getting into the university.
Get official transcripts from your school to send along with your application.
Fill out the applications to the top schools that your are considering.
(Usually the top five on your list of colleges but you can always apply to more.)
Write down the deadlines that the application is due and make sure it's there on time.
Mail the applications, recommendations, essays, transcripts, and application fees together.
Make sure everything is accurate and neat before you send it to the schools.
If you apply online then all you have to send is the recommendations, essays, transcripts and the application fee.
Fill out your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
The application is avaiable on January 1 and this is if you need money for college and this will determine your financial need.
Now just wait to hear back from the school.
Usually the beginning of January is when you will get an acceptance or decline letter.
After you found out what schools you were accepted to, decide which one you really want to attend.
At most school you have until May 1 to make a decision.
You've made your decision and now your are a college student and will be receiving a degree in the next four years.