location!Set a period of three to four months prior to moving to the USA to begin the process.
Obtain the proper visa for the U.S.
Find an employer (job) if you are not being transferred by your present employer who will make application to U.S. Customs and Immigration for your H1B Visa or other relevant Visa necessary to work in the USA.
VERY IMPORTANT.
Prepare your travel documents months ahead because processing takes time, Obtain authenticated copies of your birth certificate, marriage or divorce certificates.
Also, obtaining credit references and copies of prior work history prior to relocation will help with obtaining credit in the United States.
Obtain your tax ID number or social security number prior to relocation.
Obtaining credit in the United States can be a challenge.
Once you have your tax ID number, apply for a credit card with a bank in the United States.
Check to see if your passport is current.
Secure your I94 form from U.S. customs upon arrival into the United States (this will be given to you by customs, don't lose it).
When shopping for your new home, consider school districts if you have children.
The quality of schools can vary greatly.
Also consider renting versus buying.
It may be easier to rent a house until you find one that you'd like to buy.
Prior to enrolling children in school, certain vaccinations and shots are required.
Obtaining transcripts from your child's school prior to leaving your home country will make enrolling them in their new school easier.
Pack light : Unless it's a priceless heirloom or your work clothes for the next day consider doing one or more of the following things, garage sale, giving it to the salvation army or someone who can use it.
Shop when you get there and get settled.
Obtain an international driving permit from your host country if you will be driving around a US city.
Check the US driving regulations too.
Survey your new home by driving and walking around the city to check on the basic services like gasoline stations, hospitals, banks, post office, convenience stores, supermarkets, restaurants.
Familiarize yourself with the country s rules and regulations on behavior, curfews, traffic, etc.