shortsAssess your level of fitness.
Decide if you are ready to run a half marathon.
Before you run a half marathon, you should be able to complete a 3-mile (5 km) jog or run at least 3 times per week.
At the very least, you should be able to run at a steady pace forminutes.
Next, choose your half marathon event.
Many charitable organizations hold marathons, half marathon and 5K races to raise money for their causes.
If you are interested in a specific cause, such as environmentalism , animal rights or cancer research, look for an event that contributes to it.
Register early, as many half marathons fill up many months before the event.
Registration information may also include special requirements, such as minimum finish times, which you should account for in your training goals.
Begin your training at least 12 weeks prior to the date of your half marathon event.
Find running trails or circuits where you can accurately judge the distance, such as a local track or a neighborhood sidewalk (which you can measure the distance of in your car).
Create a training calendar and post it in a prominent place to help you stay motivated every day of your training.
Spend your first 2 weeks running 3 miles twice, with a 4-mile run at the end of the week.
Increase your short run by half a mile (0.8 km) every 2 weeks, while increasing your long run at the end of the week by 1 mile (1.6 km).
Increase your long run by 1 mile every week when you reach the last 3 to 4 weeks of your training, so that you complete a 10-mile run the week before your half marathon event.
Leave at least one day between each run.
Spend these days doing short jogs that are less than 3 miles each or cross training with other sports or fitness activities.
Devote 1 day each week to stretching and strength training with light to moderate weights.
You may like to enroll in a yoga or Pilates class to make sure that you prioritize these days in your training.
Lower your level of training the week before you run a half marathon.
Reduce the distance of your runs to 2 to 4 miles each, and spend less time cross training.
Rest for the two days prior to the half marathon event.
Get lots of sleep!
Definitely at least eight hours per night.
Eat a light, nutritious meal prior to your race, and stick with the foods you typically eat during your training.
Bring drinks and a snack for after the race as well.
Pack your running gear, such as a timer and glycogen, and a change of clothes the night before the race.
Lay out your running clothes ahead of time for less stress on the day of the event.