way.Save as much as possible
Save as much money as possible and avoid unnecessary spending . Buy mostly absolute essentials ( food , shelter, transportation ).
Search around for the best prices.
Buy things that will appreciate in value (e.g. a home) and avoid things that depreciate in value (e.g. a new car).
Cut down on spending.
For example, read books or watch basic television channels instead of paying for cable television , cooking your own food instead of dining in restaurant , quitting smoking.
Learn to live simply on modest means , and always look for free alternatives.
[2] Always think of opportunity cost: the dollar you spend now could turn into many dollars by the time you retire.
Smart spending will provide the foundation for saving money for retirement.
Avoid locking into annuities and investment programs that have a penalty period because of the agent and/or broker commissions.
If you live in the United States and it is available to you, enroll in a 401(k) account, if your employer offers 100% match up to the maximum that will be matched.
401(k) accounts are actually mutual funds that can charge high fees (e.g. around 1% per year) and therefore will not do as well as investing in stocks and bonds directly.
But with employer matching funds, you double your investment immediately, and then hopefully your fund investment will increase in value.
401(k) accounts also offer tax advantages; inquire and read about them.
You may be required to contribute at least a minimum amount to qualify for employer matching (to save about 10-30% of your income).
Develop a well-diversified portfolio.
Develop an investment plan called a portfolio for your saved money.
A portion should be delegated to stocks, another portion to bonds, another portion to commodities like gold and silver, and another portion to cash in the form of savings account , certificates of deposit (CDs), etc. An example allocation is 60% stocks, 20% bonds, 10% gold and silver, 10% cash.
The reason for diversification is to reduce the risks and maximize returns.
By not having all assets in one category, you are less affected if the value of one of components in your portfolio crashes.
Diversified classes and sub-classes of investments serve as your board of directors
Rebalance the categories in your portfolio periodically (e.g. monthly, quarterly, or annually) to maintain the proportions.
For the example above, if stocks crash and gold and silver soar, the weight of stocks will be less than 60% and gold and silver more than 10%.
You will then sell gold and silver to buy stocks until 60% stocks and 10% gold and silver is restored.
Rebalancing helps you to maintain control of your emotions and practice buying low and selling high , rather than the reverse.
This will help you lower the risks of losing money.
Diversify within each asset class
Diversify within each asset class of your portfolio by assigning a weight to each sub-class.
Buy stocks both domestic and foreign, from every sector, and of any market cap.
Buy both government and corporate bonds.
As for gold and silver, buy physical metals to take possession.
Don't trust others to store your valuables for you that you bought at high costs.
Don't buy gold and silver more than 10-15% over spot , or else they would have to appreciate a lot for you not to lose money when you need to cash out.
Gold and silver coins over 100 years old may be considered better than bullion because they have numismatic value in addition to their intrinsic metal values.
Protect your assets
Change your assets into a form such as life annuity where you could not lose it if you are sued whether you have too much to lose or just enough to tempt a swindler.
You can be certain that some people like to try to pick pockets that have discoverable assets.
Attorneys of anyone who may sue you will use compulsory discovery processes and you can be required reveal your assets.
Avoid seeing your life savings go to others accounts.
Also, purchasing "umbrella" liability insurance for more protection may be a good plan.
Your insurance agent will tell you your options and how much your should get.
Percentage of your income to save for the years until you will retire.
Click the chart to enlarge.
Follow these general guidelines to help you build your retirement savings depending on the number of years until you would retire.
The percentages to invest assume you are just beginning to save and have the goal of maintaining your lifestyle for up to 30 years of retirement.
[3]
If you start saving in your 20s :
Save between 10 percent and 15 percent of your income for your retirement investments.
Do not cut back on your retirement savings.
Small contributions to your retirement plan can grow over time.
If you start saving in your 30s :
Save between 15 percent and 25 percent of your income for your retirement investments.
Keep a list of your spending to find ways that you may see to cut back.
If you receive a bonus, put as much of it as possible into your retirement savings.
Also fund your retirement accounts even if you begin saving for your children's college expenses or even if you pay extra on your mortgage to pay it off early.
If you start saving in your early 40s :
Save between 25 percent and 35 percent of your income for your retirement investments.
Put the maximum amount into your(k), SEP-IRA, or other retirement plan at your place of employment.
Contribute to a traditional IRA (or Roth IRA, if eligible).
Consider a deferred variable annuity as another option.
Consider less expensive public (state) universities for your children, or ask that they use educational loans, grants, and scholarships.
Save more thanpercent of your income for your retirement investments.
Put the maximum amount into all of your tax-deferred retirement account options.
"U. S. Social Security" retirement benefits are insufficient to live comfortably.
Consider income-only products.
You should read prospectus documents.
Do not make any decisions under pressure or on the whim of the moment.
Check with as many companies as you like.
Take your time to decide [4] :
"Bonds" may give fixed earnings.
You can choose taxable, or tax-free interest payouts, and use bond laddering (bonds becoming mature at different times) to stabilize your income.
"Bond mutual funds" which are made of a number of bonds may create a periodic payout with bond mutual funds.
Some brokers can give you choices with screening of short lists of tax-free and taxable bond funds that they recommend (sell).
"CDs" may be competitively priced CDs that offer a fixed interest payout from FDIC-insured banks nationwide.
"Income annuities" are used to secure a guaranteed income stream throughout your life that's independent of interest rate changes or market volatility with an income annuity.
"Income mutual funds": Identify no-transaction-fee funds that emphasize income distributions while still providing growth potential to help you keep pace with the cost of living.
Choose from funds designed to produce monthly payments of investment income while giving your savings opportunity to grow.
Monthly Income Funds give you a range of options to match your targeted income needs.
"Variable annuities" may have guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits.
There are annuity investments with the option of a guaranteed monthly lifetime income.
PrioritiesSacrificeA savings
accountA retirement
accountSafe