money.Change those spark plugs ! Platinum spark plugs may claim to last 100,000 miles, but I've seen them foul up at just 75,000 miles.
Spark plugs are relatively inexpensive and (depending on the vehicle) easy to replace.
If you're not that handy or mechanically inclined, read some auto repair books or be-friend a mechanic.
Limit your driving.
This article includes ideas such as carpooling, combining trips and taking the first parking spot you find.
Find good gas prices . This article offers tips about making sure you are paying a competitive price for the gas you do buy.
Take care of your car . A properly maintained vehicle will run more efficiently and give you better mileage, which saves you money in gas.
Fill up efficiently.
This involves three things:
Fill the tank full.
If you need to fill up, fill up all the way.
The more money you try to save by adding $10 today and then $20 tomorrow will be wasted since each time you will have to travel to the station and wait for a pump.
Instead, do it all at once to save time and money.
Don't top up your tank between fills.
It is wasted money and bad for the environment because it invariably forces liquid fuel into the evaporative emissions system where it overwhelms circuits that are supposed to only route fuel tank vapors to the engine while it is running and can be burned.
Wait until you have a quarter tank but don't push this any further.
Doing this can extend your gas because you are hauling a lighter fuel load.
It also gives you the opportunity to buy more gas if you run across a bargain.
However, in cold weather, you run an increased risk of condensation in the fuel tank.
Running a car with less than a quarter tank can shorten the life of the electric fuel pump and running on empty will often destroy the pump.
Buy a diesel.
Some diesel cars offer mileage comparable to popular hybrids.
Getting a diesel car also allows for use of bio-diesel or even waste vegetable oil (WVO/SVO) fuel.
Though diesel pricing can vary widely from traditional petrol.
Buy a hybrid.
Not only do hybrids give you immediate savings at the pump, the U.S. government and your local state offer tax breaks for people who use gas-saving cars.
Federal deductions for using gas-saving cars can be as high as $2,000, but check before buying to see if they're still in effect.
Also, check with your insurance company because Hybrids have higher insurance rates.
Buy a smaller car.
Generally speaking, smaller cars are lighter and get better mileage.
Avoid idling.
While idling, your car gets exactly 0 miles per gallon while starting the car uses the same amount as idling for 6 seconds.
Park your car and go into the restaurant rather than idling in the drive-through.
Idling with the air conditioning on also uses extra fuel.
Also, avoid going so fast that you have to brake for someone.
Whenever you brake, you waste the gas it took to get going that fast.
Plan your trips in advance . This can prevent wasting fuel and wasting time.
Plan to use alternative routes.
Often back roads can prevent you from stopping at traffic lights and more importantly sitting in traffic jams.
Try to schedule your trips and errands when traffic is lighter.
Use a global positioning system (GPS) to help you navigate and find the fastest and shortest distance to your destination.
Avoiding hills and stops will increase your gas mileage.
Drive at a consistent speed.
Avoid quick acceleration and hard braking.
Cruise control will keep you at a constant speed, even when going up and down hills.
Avoid stops.
If approaching a red light, see if you can slow down enough to avoid having to actually stop (because you reach the light after it is green).
Speeding up from 5 or 10 miles per hour will be easier on the gas than starting from full stop.
Anticipate the stop signs and lights . Look far ahead; get to know your usual routes.
You can let up on the gas earlier.
Coasting to a stop will save the gasoline you would otherwise use maintaining your speed longer.
If it just gets you to the end of a line of cars at a red light or a stop sign a few seconds later, it won't add any time to your trip.
Ditto for coasting to lose speed before a highway off-ramp: if it means you catch up with that truck halfway around the curve instead of at the beginning, you haven't lost any time.
In many cities, if you know the streets well, you can time the lights and maintain the appropriate speed to hit all green lights.
Usually this is about 35 to 40 MPH.
Maintain a safe following distance.
Don't stick to the bumper of the car directly in front of you.
You will brake more and accelerate more to keep that unnecessary and dangerous narrow gap.
This also gives you a lot more room to play with when you are timing traffic signals.
Likewise, ignore tailgaters.
They will tailgate you whether you go the speed limit, or 100MPH over the speed limit.
Allow them pass when it's convenient.
Slow down.
Air resistance goes up as the square of velocity.
The power consumed to overcome that air resistance goes up as the cube of the velocity.
Rolling resistance is the dominant force below about 40 mph.
Above that, every mph costs you mileage.
Go as slow as traffic and your schedule will allow.
Drive under 60-65 since air grows exponentially denser, in the aerodynamic sense, the faster we drive.
To be precise, the most efficient speed is your car's minimum speed in it's highest gear, since this provides the best "speed per RPM" ratio.
This is usually about 45 to 55 miles per hour.
Take off slowly from a full stop.
This is one adjustment that will have dramatic effects on your gas mileage; don't tear off from a stoplight or stop sign!
Stay well away from store fronts where you will spend significantly more time idling and waiting for pedestrians and other vehicles.
Use A/C only on the highway.
At lower speeds, open the windows.
This increased the drag and reduces fuel efficiency, but not as much as the AC at low speeds (35-40 mph).
Even better, at any speed, turn on the vent when it is cool outside or open windows just a few inches.
The air con - when used a lot - is known to use up about 8% of the fuel you put into your car.
Shift into neutral if you are not comfortable with downshifting.
Standard transmission vehicles may save gas by shifting into neutral when going down hills steep enough to maintain speed (although engine braking is safer on steeper declines).
Do not do this in a Hybrid car, they use this "regenerative engine braking" to generate electricity and charge the batteries.
NOTE: This strategy will result in more wear and tear on your brakes.
Neither of these strategies is recommended for normal automatic cars.
Also, if you own a car with fuel injection, it is more efficient to keep the car in a high gear while going down hills.
Simply take your foot off the gas.