media.Begin by holding the crucifix in your fingers while making the Sign of the Cross.
Then say the Apostle's Creed.
Moving to the first bead after the crucifix, say the Lord's Prayer .
Moving to the group of three beads after that, say three Hail Marys.
Traditionally these 3 prayers are offered to obtain an increase in the virtues of Faith, Hope and Charity and for the intentions of the Pope.
Moving to the chain or cord between the three Hail Mary beads and the next bead, say the Doxology.
The next bead is an Our Father, and is the bead which begins the first decade of the mysteries you will be praying.
Remember to start with mentioning the first rosary mystery.
You then arrive at the "centre", the tiny medallion separating this first part of the rosary from the main section, which consists of five groups of ten beads each, separated by another "Our Father" bead between each group.
Begin reciting the "Hail Mary" for each bead in the first decade.
As you complete the first decade, proceed to the chain or cord that separates it from the next Our Father bead, and say the Doxology.
Optionally, at this point you can add the Fatima prayer or/and the prayer for priests; this is done without moving along the beads.
Proceed then to the Our Father bead and say the Lord's prayer.
Continue until you have gone all the way around the chain of beads and meditated on all five Mysteries in the set you have chosen.
The Annunciation: Humility
The Visitation: Charity
The Birth of Our Lord: Poverty, or detachment from the world
The Presentation of Our Lord: Purity of heart, obedience
The Finding of Our Lord in the Temple: Piety
The Agony in the Garden: Contrition for our sins
The Scourging at the Pillar: Mortification of our senses
The Crowning with Thorns: Interior mortification
The Carrying of the Cross: Patience under crosses
The Crucifixion and Death of Our Lord: That we may die to ourselves
The Resurrection: Conversion of heart
The Ascension: A desire for heaven
The Coming of the Holy Ghost: The Gifts of the Holy Ghost
The Assumption of our Blessed Mother into Heaven: Devotion to Mary
The Coronation of our Blessed Mother: Eternal happiness