attention!As you slow your car down (or turn around to go back to the garage sale), look for a place to park.
Some places you park right in the person's driveway, other times such as at bigger garage sales, people are parked alongside the road.
Try to park in a convenient spot.
A good spot will be a very short walk from the first tables or garage of stuff.
This way any heavy items will be easier to transport to your car, and multiple trips will take less time so you can be on your way.
If a certain item caught your eye, immediately go to it.
Examine it and determine if it is something you want.
If not, slowly browse through the rest of the garage sale in an orderly fashion examining all items carefully, but at the same time quickly.
Anything that strikes your interest inspect it, look it over and check the price.
At a good garage sale you should find a number of things of interest to you.
It is recommended that you bring a bag.
Go orderly through all the tables and piles of merchandise.
Paw through some boxes, get an overall idea of what's there.
After going through the garage sale and finding items you wish to purchase, (if nothing just skip to last step) go through one more time in a quicker manner, and see if there's anything you missed.
A box of stuff that you didn't see before, new items put out, a separate area of the garage sale, etc, etc.
After selecting the things you wish to purchase, go to where the person handling the money is.
(they are usually pretty obvious, most sit in the garage or on the lawn at a table in chairs, and have a sort of money box)
Ask any questions about items (i.e., - What is this?, How old is it?, Is there anything wrong with it?, Is it missing any parts?, Does it work?)
Some things they may not know anything about but try to get an idea of what you are buying.
Nothing is worse then shelling out $30.00 and finding out it's missing required parts, or plain just doesn't work.
If you think a price is too high, try to bargain with them.
Many people are happy to get rid of the stuff they are selling, so try to get a lower price, (this is known as dickering) many are happy to settle for less.
Or even a best offer or a possible trade.
Reach an agreement you both can be happy with.
However some people will remain firm.
The price they put on it, no ifs ands or buts.
Do not be discouraged or upset if they are stubborn with the price (you were intending to buy it in the first place weren't you?)
If you don't like it simply put it back.
Sometimes then they may agree to a price.