shelfClean the kitchen up quickly.
Don't spend to much time trying to clean everything, and organize everything.
Just put the dishes away, and clean off all surface areas.
Grab a broom and wet cloth and go to each room and dust down the cob webs that have built up in the corners.
Look at all the walls in your home, and if you see very visible spots wipe them down quickly.
Take the same wet cloth and go to all the doorknobs, light switches and other areas that get touched or used alot but not cleaned very often and take the time to clean them off and disinfect them.
Take the time to go around and dust all picture frames, and other artwork.
If you see stains on the glass part of your pictures don't use a spray cleaner like 'Windex', instead just take a wet cloth and gently scrub the spot.
Dust all the ceiling fans and light fixtures before taking them down to clean them up.
It may be helpful to replace all lights so you can have a bright home during the night.
If needed clean the blinds if there dusty, and if your drapes or curtains have stains wash them yourselves, or take them to the dry cleaners if needed.
Clean up the windows.
Now that it's spring you want to let in as much light as possible.
So get all the grime that's built up into the corners of the windows and clean it out.
Then clean the inside of all windows, then move to the outside.
If your oven, stove, and or microwave are really bad, take the time to scrub down as much of the grime you can then apply the proper cleaner to really get them clean.
This would also be a good time to wash the outside of your fridge, and if you can sweep and mop under it.
If it's a nice day open up all the windows to let some fresh air in.
Mop all the floors in your home if they are tiled or wooden, if they are carpet take a vaccumm to them, then a deep carpet cleaning vaccumm, to make your floors look like new.
Take the time to clean out your freezer and fridge.
If it's expired, you don't know what it is, or you haven't used it, then throw it out.
Now, once you have what you know you'll be keeping, take it out and clean the shelves and drawers.
Get one of those baking soda boxes to keep bad odors from pouring upon you everytime you open your fridge.
Clean the top of your stove, if there's any crumbs wipe them up, and if there's any stains wipe them up.
Wipe up the back of your stove where all the knobs and the clock is.
Clean all small appliances.
Including but not limited to, the toaster, coffee pot/machine, outside of microwave, blender, and if you have it a stand mixer.
Clean out cupboards, and take all the mismatched lids or bowls and find the matches.
Put everything back neat and orderly.
If you've moved dishes or bowls to another place, and you don't think you'll remember where they are try putting a sticky note on the new place for a week or so to help you get used to it.
Wipe down the outside of your cabinets, and dishwasher.
Wipe off your countertops, and organize any items you may keep on the counters.
Clean out your drawers and organize whatever you keep in there.
Wash out the sink.
To freshen up your kitchen place a few lemon or orange peels in your garbage disposals, turn on for a few seconds, and enjoy the fresh, sweet secent.