KitDecide what you're going to sell.
This may tremendously affect how you go about setting up your store.
Here are the main points to consider:
Is it a physical product that needs to be shipped, or is it a digital product that can be sent through the Internet?
Are you going to have an inventory (more than one) of each product, or will they be one-of-a-kind (e.g. artwork, vintage items)?
Are you going to want to sell a wide variety of products, or do you plan to specialize, like selling just t-shirts or books?
Are you passionate about the product?
Your passion and enthusiasm for a particular niche topic will give you a competitive advantage over larger sellers that are forced to be more broad in their product coverage.
By choosing a category that you are passionate about, you will have a greater chance of enjoying the journey of creating and managing an online store, which will require patience and the ability to overcome adversity.
In a way, opening an online store around one of your hobbies or interests allows you to reallocate time productively that you would have spent on your hobby anyways.
Test the waters by selling your items on a small scale.
In the real world, it'd be wise to try selling your products through other, low-commitment avenues (consignment, flea markets, craft shows , etc.) before taking the plunge and starting an entire store.
The same is true for selling online.
Try selling your items individually on eBay, Craigslist, Half.com and the like.
Here's what you'll want to look for:
Who is buying your product?
Offer a discount coupon or free gift if they answer a brief survey.
Find out where else they shop online.
How much are they willing to pay?
Experiment with different prices.
How is customer satisfaction?
This is a good time to test how well you can get your product to the customer.
Are you using good packaging?
Is the shipping method reliable?
Are they happy with their product?
Did you describe it well?
Consider your options.
If you've got a big budget, you can hire someone to set up a store for you from scratch.
But for the rest of us, there are plenty of services that you can choose from.
If your store isn't specialized, compare any general e-commerce service, like Flying Cart, Vendio, Yahoo Merchant Services, Zlio and Miscake Stores.
There are also services geared towards certain kinds of products:
General e-commerce services like Flying Cart, Vendio, and Yahoo Merchant Services.
These sites will allow you to setup professional looking online storefronts when you ship your own inventory.
Affiliate store services such as Amazon aStores or Zilo.
Zlio stores allow you to resell products carried by Buy.com and other merchants by writing reviews of products and focusing on a theme that makes consumers lives easier.
Amazon aStores and Zilo stores allow you to get in the game fast, but do not allow you to carry your own physical inventory.
eBay - If you've already sold some stuff on eBay, and you're confident that most of your customer base will find you there, then you can "graduate" to an eBay store to save money on listing fees.
Your customers will need to be web-savvy enough to feel comfortable using eBay.
Note that eBay tends to attract people searching for bargains and one-of-a-kind items (and bargains on one-of-a-kind items).
Cafepress - This is a service worth considering if you're selling mostly t-shirts, and other stuff you can "stamp" with your unique designs (mugs, stickers, buttons).
Customers browse your store, order their stuff, and Cafepress processes the order and the items for you.
You can start a basic shop for free, and pay a monthly subscription for more features.
Etsy - This is a popular choice for people who make what they sell.
There's acent charge for every item listed, and Etsy keeps 3.5% of your sale price if the item is sold.
You get paid directly and are responsible for shipping the item.
You're charged fees (depending on what sold) on a monthly basis.
[1]