it.Select an appropriate sunscreen.
Check your sunscreens SPF.
The SPF, or "sun protection factor" number, contrary to popular belief, does not signify how strong the SPF is. It tells you how long it will keep you protected (theoretically).
For example: it is in how many minutes you burn x the number that tells you how long it should last (even though you should reapply often, say every few hours, or more often if you burn easily).
So if you burn in 10 minutes of sun exposure without any protection, SPF 30 will keep you protected for 300 minutes (in theory!).
Keep in mind that SPF is not cumulative.
Applying one SPFsunscreen and another SPF 20 sunscreen may give you slightly better coverage, but it does not add up to SPF 35.
Look for both UVA and UVB coverage.
This means that the sunscreen will block both kinds of damaging ultraviolet light.
Look for a PABA-free sunscreen.
Para-aminobenzoic acid, or PABA, was used in sunscreens for a long time, but it can stain clothing and cause an allergic reaction in some people.
Waterproof it up
Choose a water-resistant sunscreen, if you will be swimming or sweating . No sunscreen is truly waterproof, so you should reapply the sunscreen frequently, according to package instructions.
Choose a sunscreen that suits you.
Some daily sunscreens aren't as gooey or smelly as some of the heavy-duty outdoor sport formulations.
Some sunscreens come in spray-on, roll-on, and stick formats.
Some sunscreens come with built-in insect repellent.
Some even temporarily turn your skin a different color!
If you dislike wearing it so much that you don't, it will do you no good.
Wearing sunscreen need not be unpleasant, so smell and try different sunscreen brands and styles to find the one(s) that are best suited for you.
The word "sunblock" is a misnomer.
Sunscreen slows the effects of the sun on skin by absorbing, reflecting, and scattering UV rays, but it doesn't block (or stop) them.
Apply plenty of sunscreen.
Apply the sunscreen generously.
If you're using a cream, the amount of sunscreen you should use is about the size of a regular golf-ball, or 1 oz.
Start ahead of time.
Ideally, begin applying sunscreen at least a half hour before you go out.
It takes approximately 20 minutes for sunscreen to become effective after it has been applied.
Use more than you think you need.
Most people do not use enough sunscreen, stopping at somewhere between one-fourth and one-half the quantity applied to test sunscreens.
Don't just grease it on.
Put a little on and rub it in.
Then do it again and again, until you have a deep, penetrating layer of sunscreen.
Do it right and you won't notice it at all and it will truly protect.
Don't miss a spot!
Be thorough.
Put it on the most vulnerable areas: the entire face and forehead, especially the nose and tips of ears, back of the neck, backs of knees, and arms.
Make sure to cover all skin that will be exposed.
Don't forget the tops of feet, if you're wearing sandals - sunburned feet can be very sore!
Have a friend help with hard-to-reach spots like backs and shoulders.
Keep your sunscreen relatively fresh.
Expired sunscreen may not be as effective as recently-purchased sunscreen, but in general, any sunscreen is better than no sunscreen.
If there's no expiration date, try it and see if it still works, or replace anything older than about three years.
A wide-brimmed hat.
Cover up.
Light layers of clothing work best, in light colors which reflect heat, rather than dark ones, which absorb it.
Try a shell or tank top, and then wear a light camp shirt open over that.
Natural fibers like cotton are coolest.
Wear the right hat . Choose a hat with at least a 3-inch (8 cm) brim all around.
A hat will also help to keep you cool.
Baseball caps leave the ears and neck exposed, so they're not the best choice for sun protection.
A hat will also help to protect your eyes from glare.
Wear light-colored, loose fitting clothing.
It will keep you cooler and help prevent sunburn by reflecting the sunlight.
Be aware, though, that clothing may not block sunlight completely.
In fact, an ordinary t-shirt may only be the equivalent of SPF 5.
Look for clothing designed to block sun, even up to SPF 50, if you spend a lot of time outdoors.
They do more than look cool.
Wear sunglasses . Choose sunglasses that block UV light and wrap around to block light from the side, too.
If you're not sure whether your old sunglasses adequately block UV, ask an optometrist to have them checked.
Long term exposure to UV light can lead to cataracts.
Wear sunglasses in conjunction with a hat.
Drink plenty of water.
Stay hydrated.
Water is the best choice.
If you'll be exercising heavily, a sports drink can help to replace electrolytes.
Drink in proportion to how much you perspire, but remember that too much too quickly can harm you.
It's best to take frequent, moderate portions.
Too much sugar, as in soda, can undermine the benefits of the liquid, and alcohol can dehydrate you outright.
Relax in the shade.
Stay out of the sun.
Especially between 10am and 4pm, stay out of the sun as much as possible.
Finding a spot in the shade, carrying an umbrella or parasol, and scheduling outdoor activities to avoid those hours can help to minimize exposure.
A one-armed trucker's tan.
Limit your total time in the sun.
Roll up car windows and run the air conditioning rather than dangling your arm out the window.
Glass blocks UV light reasonably well.