1
An organization prepares care packages for troops.
Look for an organization to join.
The military mail will no longer accept mail to 'any soldier' since 9/11 because of security reasons.
Organizations can get addresses of Chaplains, FOBs (Forward Operating Bases), or base commanders who can receive care packages and mail.
Often addresses come to organizations from families.
Check out the organization you plan to join.
Make sure it is not only legitimate, but that it has a good reputation.
There are organizations out there that only want your money.
Do they have any awards?
From whom?
Look at those pages.
Contact the main office of the organizations.
Is there open information?
Do they list their office phone numbers, email, address, list of corporate officers, and links to their financial information?
Get the necessary information on membership.
Some questions to ask may be: What obligations are there?
Are there any dues?
If there are other monies exchanged, how are they spent?
Can they tell you where their money goes?
Don't be afraid to call their office and ask some pointed questions.
Decide on an organization to join.
Get involved with people from that organization who have the experience.
They can help you along the way, avoid mistakes, and make your membership fun.
Go to the mall and talk to the recruiters.
Many of them have been forward deployed recently.
They can be very helpful.
Thank them for their service while you're there.
Use the USPS Flat Rate shipping.
You can put anything in the box as long as it fits, up to 70 pounds for domestic mail.
You will have to use a customs form, but an APO or FPO address is considered domestic.
Send an assortment.
Choose items to send.
There is a long list of items that can be very useful to the troops (see Tips).
Imagine a year-long camping trip.
What would you need if you were 18 years old?
Adopt a service member.
Get an address and other information about your adoptee.
Consider committing to a 6 - 12 month obligation.
You may never hear from him/her, but the important thing is that they hear from you and they are supported.
Adopt one at first.
If all goes well you might want to adopt another later.