firefighter.The arch position
Slow your fall using the arch position.
Unless you re falling from an airplane, you won t have enough time to try this step.
Maximize your surface area by spreading yourself out using this skydiving technique.
Position yourself so that the front of your body faces the ground.
Arch your back and pelvis and tilt your head back like you re trying to touch the back of your head to the back of your legs
Extend your arms so that your upper arms are out to the sides, and bend your elbows at adegree angle so that your lower arms and hands point forward (parallel to, and on the sides of, your head) with your palms facing down; spread your legs to shoulder width.
Bend your knees slightly.
Find the best landing spot.
This step can only be performed if falling from an airplane.
For very high falls, the surface on which you land is the greatest influence on your chance of survival.
Search for steep slopes that gradually grow gentler, since you will not lose all of your momentum at once when you hit the ground.
Observe the terrain below you as you fall.
Hard, inflexible surfaces such as concrete are the worst on which to fall.
Very uneven or jagged surfaces, which present less surface area to distribute the force of impact, are also undesirable.
The best possible surfaces on which to fall are snow , deep water (preferably water that is fast moving or frothy), soft ground (such as a newly tilled field or in a marsh), and trees or thick vegetation (although these present a high risk of impalement).
Steer yourself to the landing spot.
If you re falling from an airplane, you will usually have about 1-3 minutes before impact.
You will also have the ability to travel horizontally a good distance (up to a couple of miles or three kilometers).
From the arch position described above, you can direct your flight forward by pulling your arms slightly back at the shoulders (so that they are not extended forward as much) and straightening (extending) your legs.
You can move backward by extending your arms and bending your knees as though you are trying to touch the back of your head with your heels.
Right turns may be accomplished while staying in the arch position by twisting your upper body slightly to the right (dipping your right shoulder), and left turns are performed by dipping the left shoulder.
Bend your knees.
Possibly nothing is more important to surviving a fall (or simpler to do) than bending your knees.
Research has shown that having one s knees bent at impact can reduce the magnitude of impact forces 36-fold.
Relax . Relaxing during a long fall especially as you near the ground is easier said than done, but try anyway.
If your muscles are tense, your body will transfer force more directly to your vital organs.
One way to remain (relatively) calm is to focus on performing the steps and being aware of your body.
Doing so gives you something else to think about besides impending death.
Land feet-first.
No matter what height you fall from, you should always try to land on your feet.
While landing feet-first concentrates the impact force on a small area, it also allows your feet and legs to absorb the worst of the impact.
If you are in any other position, try to right yourself before you hit the ground (fortunately, attaining the feet-first position seems to be an instinctive reaction).
Keep your feet and legs tightly together so that both your feet hit the ground at the same time.
Land on the balls of your feet.
Point your toes slightly down before impact so that you will land on the balls of your feet.
This will allow your lower body to more effectively absorb the impact.
Try to roll.
It's in video games, and it works in real life, too.
This can absorb the impact greatly by moving your body's force across the ground instead of straight into it.
Tuck your arm under your leg and roll your head towards your chest as soon as you hit the ground.
Make sure you do not roll after you've 'bounced' off the ground once you've landed.
Protect your head on the bounce.
When you fall from a great height onto land, you will usually bounce.
Some people who survive the initial impact (often with a feet-first landing) suffer a fatal injury on their second impact.
Cover your head with your arms.
One technique for doing so is to put your arms on the sides of your head with your elbows facing forward (and projecting in front of your face) and your fingers laced behind your head or neck.
This covers a large portion of your head, but obviously not all of it.
If you have time to get an indication of which way you re bouncing (and hence which part of your head you re likely to hit), you can quickly adjust your arms to cover that part of your head.
Control the orientation of your body on the bounce.
As you would expect, mortality is highest when the initial point of impact is the head.
Mortality declines (in this order) when the point of impact is ventral (the front of the body), dorsal (back of the body), lateral (side of the body), and feet-first.