returnsStay as hydrated as possible before going out.
That means water , not beer, not soft drinks.
Make sure you have lots of water!
The same goes for what you take with you.
Water may not be the most enjoyable drink out there, but every gram of carbohydrates and salts must be compensated for with more water.
Take along food that packs the most nutrition in the least size and weight.
For some, that might be granola bars, while others will swear by pemmican or jerky.
Trail mix is a very popular choice.
Do your research, experiment beforehand, and be prepared.
When wheeled vehicles break down, it's just your two legs and the path to the next town, and you don't want to be carrying anything nonessential.
Wear wicking fabrics with a UPF of at least 30 as a base layer, and take along one warming layer (wool or fleece) and one windbreak layer.
Light colors are recommended both for reflecting (rather than absorbing) light and its associated heat, and in order to be seen at night.
While the chances are slim that anyone will stop to help you, at minimum you want to be seen so that you aren't run over.
Long sleeves and pant legs, and a broad-brimmed hat, can reduce or eliminate the need for sunblock.
Many deserts are prone to dust storms : take goggles (not mask-type, but rather those that cover each eye individually) and a dust mask, gas mask, bandanna, or anything to keep the dust out of your lungs.
Travel at night when possible; the cooler air enables you to travel farther and faster with minimum danger of heat exhaustion.
A headlight and taillight on your head or clothing will minimize danger from traffic.
Try to stay as warm as possible at night.
Bring along a good goose-down sleeping bag; it can become quite cold in the desert at night.
Mountain lions, while uncommon, are always dangerous.
Coyotes individually should not present a problem unless rabid, but in a pack they can be a problem if they become curious about your food.
Coyotes will generally be far more scared of you than you are of them.
Bobcats look cuddly, but if one approaches you, it is most likely rabid.
In some areas, wolves have been re-introduced; even one hungry wolf can be a formidable enemy.
Even javelinas (wild pigs) can cause trouble; they are small but have tusks that can tear into flesh.
Brown recluse spiders and scorpions can also present a danger far exceeding their size.
While some recommend bringing along a 'snake-bite kit,' there is some dispute as to their effectiveness, and they can increase the chances of a dangerous infection.
Travelers in areas with venomous critters should pay close attention to prevention, e.g. tucking in shirts and pant legs, avoiding areas where these animals nest, etc. Diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and epinephrine (Epi-pen) can help to slow or stop allergic reactions to venom, but require some training.
If stuck on finding water, create a hole in a cactus, as cacti hold gallons of water.