effectiveAccept the fact that there are some things in your life that you are not happy with : your job, your relationship, your body.
There is always a root to your anxiety and panic.
You may panic in a certain situation, which probably has no relation to the real issue.
Are you really afraid or terrified of a mall, or being inside of a car, or being in a social situation which you don't understand and worry that no one accepts you?
Try to start overcoming your fears, and to let go of your "safety behaviours".
This is very important, as it allows you to retrain your mind into letting you again believe that there isn't a danger in going to the mall, or driving a car.
You have told your mind that these things are putting your body in danger, and your body is reacting to the threat.
But really, there is not a threat at the time, your mind is tricking your body.
If, for instance, there was a real threat then your body would respond as necessary.
This is what our bodies are designed to do.
Become familiar with, and comfortable going through your bodily sensations again.
When we suffer from panic attacks, our bodies almost forget to recognize the symptoms as being normal.
Our minds think we are in danger, therefore triggering more symptons and, well, you can see the vicious cycle.
Once you familiarize yourself with these sensations, you can re-train your mind to know that this is your body's way of reacting, you are not in danger, and there is no need to get scared or panic.
Practice going over your bodily sensations at home or wherever you feel comfortable.
Gradually you'll be able to go for longer periods of time.
Once you know the sensation, and that your body can handle quite a bit of it, you can tell yourself that this is a normal reaction for your body and nothing is going to happen to you.
Move onto another sensation, like depersonalization.
[WARNING: Do not try this if you have,or think you may have, dissociative disorder or PTSD.
Incest and child sexual abuse survivors are particularly vulnerable to dissociation.]
This can be very frightening for someone who doesn't know the meaning.
This occurs when you feel that your mind is not in the moment, but your body is. It can be very scary, but in fact, it is another normal bodily function.
When we are in situations we are used to and don't need to give much attention to, we tend to drift.
For example, if you take the same route to work everyday, and one day get to work and think, "Wow, I don't even remember going through the last set of lights!."
This is depersonalization.
We don't get anxious in those scenarios, but when it happens during a panic attack, it can bring the anxiety to a higher level.
For this, try standing in front of the mirror, staring at yourself, not saying a word.
After awhile, you are going to start feeling as if your mind and body are in different places.
Keep trying this.
Go for longer and longer periods until you are comfortable with the sensation.
Teach your mind that it is normal for your heart rate to increase/decrease throughout the day.
Sometimes during an attack, your heart may start racing and this might lead you to believe that you're having a heart attack.
The mind often then tricks the body to react even more, therefore starting the cycle of an attack.
You can time yourself again, starting with 10 seconds of hyperventilating: breathing heavily in and out.
Once you are comfortable with this, try going to 15 sec., etc. You will be surprised at how much heavy breathing your body can handle.
It doesn't have a problem adjusting at the gym when you are working out, why can't it fluctuate any other time throughout the day?
It can and will with no adverse affects.
Try a mind skill called scripting.
This is not a physical sensation but a mental exercise.
Take your fear(s) and write each one out, being very detailed and specific.
Write every aspect of the fear, and don't stop even at the point when you think you are done.
Make sure that you write out the final consequence.
Then take this story of yours and read it over and over and OVER again.
It may be scary and difficult to do in the beginning but, eventually, you will see how silly it sounds.
And it will become clear that it is truly "just a story".
Over time you will find yourself desensitized to it and not have to get scared over your thoughts again, for they really are "just thoughts".