anything!Minimize.
Having a large collection of earrings may be difficult to manage.
Before you begin on the following steps, sort through your collection, separating the ones you like from the ones you don't.
Keep the ones you like, and get rid of the rest.
you can do this by giving them to a friend or sibling, selling them to a pawn shop, selling them on Ebay, or if they're made of silver or gold you can send them to a company that will trade old gold for money.
Organize.
A little orderliness can go a long way.
It makes it a lot easier to find when you want a particular item of jewelery.
Some suggestions:
By color (all blues together, all gold-tone, rhinestones, etc.)
By amount of use.
(Put your regularly used ones in one area, the others in a different location.)
Costume versus valuable earrings.
(Your grandmother's antique pearl earrings might be better off in a lockbox, safe, cloth-lined box or separate location.)
By size ("Dangly earrings" separate from "Post" earrings)
Commercial Jewelry boxes: Be sure to count how many earrings you have, and purchase one accordingly.
Some jewelry boxes are simply felt-lined trays, some have racks with holes, some have both.
Tool box/Tackle box: Available in most every hardware or home goods store!
Find one that has many small, individual enclosures and a lid--preferably one that cannot be lost.
While not usually very attractive, it is cheap, practical, and great for travel.
Find a rectangular piece of cardboard.
You can get this from anywhere; a craft store, a cereal box, wrapping from pantyhose, an old book etc...
Punch holes in the cardboard.
With a thumb tack, pen, or just a set of earrings, punch sets of two holes all over the cardboard, approximately 2 to 3 centimeters apart, or more depending on the size of your earrings.
Bend the cardboard.
About 1/4 from the bottom, bend the cardboard back to make the display stand up
Disinfect your earrings.
Before putting them in the stand, disinfect all of your earrings using rubbing alcohol.