endurance.Locate a metro station.
As mentioned, you are never too far away from one, but here are a few tips to spot them.
They will normally have a sign saying "Metro" on them.
There are some stations (Like Miro-Mesnil) whose entrances are within a building.
So if you swear you cannot see one, look at the nearby buildings- the station could be hiding in them.
Refer to a metro map.
Find a place to sit down inside the station and look at a map on the wall or, if you have one, a pocket map.
Decide where you want to go, and try to locate the appropriate stop on the map.
Check what line it is on, and remember the colour of the line it is on.
Buy a ticket at the machine by the desk.
A carnet is a bundle of 10 tickets.
You can also buy tickets by 20.
Consider the following packages:
The "Navigo Decouverte" (previously Carte Orange) allows you to travel by Metro, Bus, RER and Tramway in the zones of Paris and the Ile de France for at least three days.
Paris visite is a card that will get you entry to museums too (not the Eiffel Tower, before you ask).
A Carte Mobilis will get you a day's ride on Metro, Bus and RER.
Locate your platform.
There will be signs showing the colour of the line, and the terminus where it stops (the Direction).
Make sure you get the correct Terminus direction.
For example, if you want to get to the Arc de Triomphe on line 1 (Yellow), look for a sign saying "Direction La Defense".
This means that the train is heading in the direction of La Defense, and will pass through and stop at all the stations on the way.
Wait at the platform.
Keep an eye out for people too close to you, and wait for the train.
When the train arrives, keep behind the white line.
Let people leave the train first, and then you can get on it.
Find somewhere to sit/stand.
The ability to sit down on the Metro is determined by the time which you go on it.
So if you go on at around 8am or 5pm, you will probably be standing up.
When crowded, do not be tempted to sit on the fold down seats.
You will be making a nuisance of yourself.
Stay away from the door when the Buzzer goes off.
If you are approaching the train when the buzzer goes off, do not follow suit to others.
Stay on the platform and wait for the next train.
Keep an eye out for your stop.
While traveling on the train, keep an eye out for the stops you stop at, and try to predict when your stop comes.
If you want to remain unnoticed, do not make eye contact with anyone.
Do not whistle or talk loudly.
If a beggar with an accordion or other instrument comes along, ignore him/her.
This is a typical piece of advice.