checked.Understand that there are many examples of enterprises/manufacturers cooperating in marketing standardized operator interface for automobiles as seen in :
The standard configuration amber hazard and turn signal lights, of four inflatable tires, red taillights, white or bluish headlights, safety glass, and the driver interface including the steering wheel, gear shift, clutch and brakes pedals, seat belts, lockable doors, international standards of motor oil, certain grades of gasoline and diesel for internal combustion engines and many other "parts for automobiles are globalized" simply means "internationally standardized by convention," and the technology is continually being changed or modernized.
Understand the Present including the spread of electronic technology, communications such as cell phone.
Cost and availability of fuel , laws about energy, electrical systems.
Your area's heavy and light industries, transportation, automobiles.
Your costs versus those in other areas including taxes and lower environmental controls.
Government regulations, taxes and standards.
Realize that some enforced, planned business rules may not allow you much overt freedom or even the food and support for individual, family or company -- but may require you to follow nearly lock-step in a "Planned Economy."
Consider how to do all possible and then stand : you may take a stand in your "field of industry, or in a field of peas or rice" for example, but beware of dangers of restrictive laws on your freedom.
Cover your needs and protect self, but storing food or otherwise building up your assets in "centrally controlled economies" may be a crime.
"Locally planned quotas" may be as bad, in some forms of business, for example manufacturers or farmers may be forced to work under unrealistic quotas and every scrape of products taken to market by the distribution system without considering your needs, and even farmers can go without rest with hunger and deprivation.
Local planners such as intermediate and local supervisors may try to impress their bosses under unattainable, but enforced rules and quotas.
If you wait for ideal inroads then you may never blaze a new path.
Oppressive economies may spoon-feed the news media and mass information may be propaganda.
Your hands may be restrained and expressions of your ideals may be restricted.
Stand up to an Authority Figure -- if it may be worth the personal risks and costs and if you know how it could work to your advantage.
Express your freedom in art or work and Crank up Your Creativity in all areas of interest.
Keep freedom of self-expressive goals -- Effectively Track and Accomplish Your Goals for "self-actualization".
Write a Description of long term goals to give your expression of freedom some definite shape.
Keep your right to learn.
Seek knowledge and education or be self-educated, ie:
If you are reading this, you have access to much information on the internet.
Clearly, information is as important as ever, under international cooperation on business standards.
Keep your right to be useful by re-training and cross-training individually or in your union (if any) to attempt to improve your skills, keep jobs and to keep fellow worker members working.
Find a way to be trained in new skills that may be still available in your area or can be started -- and so seek to be apprenticed or be a helper in a trade, if possible.
Try to safely exercise your right to improve by volunteering to be an assistant or helper to get experience and for food if you must.
Consider how you may advance your right to make your own place in life by getting out of (not staying in) your "place" or class.
Try self-actualizing business like gardening or forming a small "truck farmer" group with several small land areas for subsistence (including survivalist farming/gardening).
Take risks to advance your economic and personal well being, as only you can by ambitious efforts.
No one can run or regulate your senses, ability, ambition and understandings.
Keep for individual expressions of all kinds as one voice for your ideals, for example : if your area does not have public school education, community colleges, etc. see if you can find some such venues in another area, state or nation.
Never give up on your dreams, including your short term and long term goals.
Keep your efforts to do better than your ancestors by working politically to maintain opportunities.
Strive toward attainment of your "rights/dreams" in areas of family and home-life.
You can still Check if Your Spirit Is Working including ambitions and goals.
Be Free by your choices, to the extent that is possible.
Use Freedom of Speech rightly by not crying "Fire." in a crowd.
Consider helping unionize/establish a union at your place of employment, and to help others as well as yourself.
Be careful how you proceed in that, legally.
Check into your right to join a union for your workplace even if it is not an organized place of employment .
Be involved in keeping the union working effectively and efficiently by attending meetings.
Consider your right to "work actions" -- while there are risks -- consider the success that is your goal.
Support your union in reasonable work actions when the employers are less cooperative.
Run for union offices; you might be the best leader, or the only one interested if local offices pay little, except perhaps for the local "Executive Vice President" who is often a professional union manager.
You may be the one people need as a voice for them...
Unions can help you improve your pay, working conditions and benefits such as paid sick-days and holidays, vacation, insurance and retirement, and much more.
Consider voting for candidates who may protect your local jobs, income and expenses, taxes, etc. and do not give up these prerogatives to other cooperating world entities.
Stay informed and be activist in how national government possibly conforms to what is provided in other nations or regions and may restrict solutions of your individual and company business at local, state and national levels.
Research how your economy and environment may be impacted by imports, exports, including their quality and value.
Help keep jobs and business in your locale : this your concern as an individual to pursue life, liberty, success and happiness.
Both cheap and expensive imports may hurt your local, state and national manufacturing industries and jobs.
Question political representatives about how they and you can work in world business markets of the post-Cold War world since the 1990s, and how have these created new issues, new markets and realignments.
These may include opportunities and business in trade, satellite communications, electronic transactions, concerns regarding natural resources, energy, conservation and pollution for examples.
Examine and decide whether the small "d" democratic policy at the international cooperation and business standards level may require "popular" control through representatives as well as your direct votes.
If so how may that work?
Consider whether your citizen participation in decision making that affect the international cooperation, business standards level may imply that you may insist on/require equal personal rights and equal individual "opportunity" for all (but not equal outcomes for all) among citizens of nations to help their and your own rights to be respected at the inter/transnational level.
Vote to match how you want your government to give precedence/priority to your nations laws, beliefs and goods are over others including less developed countries.
Would you use or not use your freedom to campaign and vote for the candidates considering possible over/underspending and under/overtaxed to be able to compete and to advance in industries and economies.
Consider whether you would like candidates who favor people to be "taught to fish for life, or giving them fish"?
Would you want your free vote (and your party to work toward) to go to help some nations in deserts or marshy jungles who have special difficulties and concerns that you may wish to consider in some matters of helping/saving starving and diseased peoples, physically and spiritually, etc.
How can you insist that your national representation should force/induce underdeveloped kingdoms, religious/theocratic governments, plus totalitarian governments and dictatorships of several kinds to be helped could be required to accept/develop democratization of decision making among their citizens with cooperating countries to help that process.
Consider voting for and helping candidates favoring democracy to help goods be made as available as reasonably possible to citizens of their various countries, states and local entities.
" 'A commons is a tract of land or water owned or used jointly by the members of a community.'
The global commons includes those parts of the earth's surface beyond national jurisdictions - notably the open ocean and the living resources found there - or held in common - notably the atmosphere.
The only landmass that may be [already] regarded as part of the global commons is Antarctica ...
[the Arctic Pole region only ice and water.]" from World Conservation Strategy prepared by and in cooperation and collaboration with the United Nations and related organizations.