bottleBackpack12 Myths about World Hunger by Frances Moore Lappe
Go to the local library or any nearby book store.
Get informed about the facts.
Find all of the inspiring books you can...
Twelve Myths about World Hunger by Frances Moore Lappe explains there is enough food to go around.
Chicken Soup for the Preteen's Soul, has a lot of great things, that kids, along with adults, can do to do different fundraisers that might inspire you yourself!
Set a goal . Start out small.
Pick one area to try and fundraise.
Gather other people willing to join.
Make your purpose legally proven to be well.
Post a website . Don't make it too flashy but put all the important stuff in it, like dates for fundraisers, where you are, what you're supporting, contact information, etc.
Put it together.
Write letters to people asking for their support in your fundraiser.
Also try to get some sponsors.
Gather materials for the fundraiser (or whatever your mind takes you to, fundraisers aren't the only way.)
Pick a theme.
You can do anything from a barbeque, where anyone can come and buy meals, where all costs go to feed the poor.
Leftovers can be handed out to the less fortunate at a local shelter!
Try to find a major restaurant sponsor to cater and/or provide space.
Attempt to find a popular world-wide, restaurant so they can cater to you from all over the world.
Set a date.
Spread the news.
Who knows?
You may make it on TV!
Donate some of the profits to a foundation similar to your beliefs.
Keep it up and you may help an area reduce the number of starving dramatically, and that's just the beginning!
Create an online fundraising page.
Make a web page and send the link to your family, friends, co-workers, parishioners, teammates, etc. and have them pass it on.
You could collect donations via credit cards online.
It's easy and simple, and eliminates spending a lot of time sending letters, calling people, and organizing big events.
Help to ensure that all people in the world have something to eat.
According to the Human Rights Charter of the United Nations food is a sufficient human right.
The rich are therefore obliged to leave the hungry people of their money so much that everyone can buy enough to eat.
Help that all people in the world have suitable work.
According to the Human Rights Charter of the United Nations work is a sufficient human right.
The rich are furthermore obliged to give the unemployed work, enough land, or money for job creation programs.
Jobs may occur in the future much in the social field, if the overall economic wealth is channeled responsibly.
Instead of the superfluous luxury of a few should primarily we should serve the common happiness of all.
Help that all people of the world are happy.
The English professor of economics Richard Layard [4] wrote "Happiness: Lessons from a New Science".
[5] There he is in favor of a change in politics and business.
Happiness of all people of the world must be the first goal of politics.
No war, environmental protection and enough to eat are the first steps to this goal.
The next step is to give the knowledge of the happiness research to the whole word und build up a positive culture of love, peace and inner happiness.
See the world.
What is to do?
There is the possibility of adequate taxation, protection laws for the poor and an agrarian reform.
There is the possibility of a Global Marshall Plan and a global eco-social market economy.
And there is the possibility that the poor organize themselves and jointly enforce their rights.
Consider your options.
What can you do?
Recognize the many opportunities that the internet offers.
We can buy fair trade products.
We can look for environmentally farming methods and do not buy products from child labor.
Even as buyers, we have a certain power, which we should use.