too.Check to see if the coast is clear.
No, you're not sneaking out of the house ; you're checking with the bride's friends and family to see if a shower is already planned.
It isn't a good idea to throw two parties if the same people will be at both!
Consider these possibilities:
If you are the bride-to-be's co-worker and would like to throw an office bridal shower, you're less likely to run into interference.
If you're the bride's mother, feel free to plan a shower for your daughter; however, be aware that in some parts of the world it is considered to be general wedding etiquette that the bride's mother does not plan a bridal shower as it is thought better left to others to plan and that it lacks taste to have the mother doing this.
Note, however, that more people are ignoring this little "rule" and doing it anyway.
It's up to your discretion.
Decide on a date.
Traditionally, the wedding shower isn't held until a month before the wedding, but these days people are less inclined to follow this norm and choose a date to suit their own needs.
Just be sure that the couple has had the opportunity to tell everyone about the wedding first.
You don't want to step on anyone's toes!
Pick a theme.
A theme helps direct both the mood of the shower party and can even impact on the gifts.
Consider a classic "Round the Clock" shower, where every guest gets a certain time of day to buy their gift for.
Those with 7 a.m. could give the bride breakfast items, whereas those with 6 p.m. may gift the couple with dinner plates and napkins.
Another idea is to have a location theme : Hawaiian, French, Chinese, or Spanish works well.
Or, tailor your theme to the location: if the shower is at the beach, an obvious choice is to have a luau or Hawaiian theme.
Choose a charity theme.
Ask that guests not bring gifts but donate money to charity instead.
This in consideration of the reality that you will receive wedding gifts anyway and a shower seeking gifts is akin to double dipping and can irritate potential wedding guests.
Set a budget . Bridal showers can run from the very inexpensive to the extremely pricey, depending on your location and number of guests.
Enlist a few of the bride's friends to help plan (and pay!)
for the shower.
Be sensible, however, as most of the money should go to the wedding and reception and not be eaten up by a wedding shower party.
If you're a bridesmaid or maid of honor, consider asking all the girls to pitch in.
A group effort will not only lessen the limits of your purse strings, but it will also help the shower itself run much more smoothly.
Compile the guest list.
Ask for some names from the bride herself, as well as from the mother of the bride.
If another shower is being planned, try not to invite those same people to yours.
It's ridiculous to expect someone to buy two and sometimes even three gifts for one person!
Also, beware of inviting those who aren't also invited to the wedding itself.
Just because you thought the bride was still friends with Laura from second grade, does not mean that she is. You will only offend people if you're not careful.
Choose a location.
Now comes the best part!
Whether it's the beach , a restaurant , or fancy hotel, the location of the shower can change everything.
If you do decide to go with a specific theme, your location should reflect this.
You probably wouldn't want to bring the bride's elderly aunts to a smoke-filled bar and grill.
Sometimes the shower is held at a relatives' home, or the maid of honor's, or even the bride's place.
Consider a nice picnic area, a yacht, or a bonfire/cookout in the backyard.
Your location should match both the bride's personality and your budget.
Choose and send the invites . Depending on the size of your budget and the overall theme of the shower, you pretty much have the world at your feet.
You can buy simple invites and hand-write the info on them, or order fancy ones from a printer, or print your own using a computer program.
Blow up a picture of the engagement photo and write the party stats on the back in black marker.
Whatever you choose, be sure to get the invitations out early, usually 4 -6 weeks before the shower itself.
Purchase decorations.
Decorations reflect the theme best.
If you're throwing a beach-themed shower, pick up some tiki torches, palm trees, and grass skirts.
Balloons, crepe paper streamers, banners, table centerpieces, plates -- the list of available items goes on and on.
Decide on a menu.
Bridal showers have been known to produce quite a few tears as well as laughter , both of which make for some hungry tummies.
Keep the time of your party in mind when creating your menu; a morning shower would be perfect for a brunch.
Some food ideas for your shower: finger sandwiches, cookies , cold salads, veggies and dip, chili , crackers and cheese, etc.
Plan some games.
Silly games are essential to any good shower.
The naughtier, the better!
Try a few of these:
Stuff It: Before the party, sit down with the groom and ask him a list of questions, preferably ones the bride may not know.
Then, at the party, pass the questions around the room, having each guest ask the bride one.
If she gets it wrong, she must stuff a piece of bubble gum in her mouth.
Her answers will become so messy, you'll have the whole room laughing.
Stud Muffin: Before the party, obtain a picture of the groom.
Buy balloons.
Also gather photos of sexy, hunky men.
Roll the pictures up tight and tie with a ribbon or rubber band.
Stuff one into each balloon and blow up.
At the party, each woman has to grab a balloon and pop it.
Whoever gets the real hunk the groom wins a prize!
Pick up some favors.
Speaking of bridal shower games, you may want to reward your loyal jesters with a gift.
Make up little gift bags and place small trinkets inside.
Shop the dollar stores if you have to: photo albums, picture frames, fancy pens, coffee mugs, dish towel sets, candles, nail polish...
Stay organized . The day of the party, keep a checklist in hand and designate others to help.
If you have extensive decorating to do, arrive at your location bright and early.
Remember all your items and remember to pick up your balloons and the cake as well.
Be a good assistant.
When the bride opens her gifts, have a pen and paper handy.
Sit next to her and write the name of the person who gives her each gift.
This will be a huge help to the bride when she writes her "thank you" notes.
In fact, many brides can't thank anyone without this list!