light-soledResearch and determine your purpose for visiting Anchorage.
If you plan to take a wilderness tour, explore the glaciers or go on a day hike, it is best to visit informational sites online and view hours of operation, rules, regulations and admission and details regarding proper equipment, footwear and attire for each excursion.
Consider the weather when planning outdoor activities.
Alaska is a beautiful state with temperatures that reach the mid-60's typically in mid-summer.
Timing a trip during the winter months will take careful consideration and planning.
While Anchorage is a popular destination year round, weather may play a factor in the activities planned and packing for a trip.
Research weather conditions on news and local Web sites.
Browse travel sites and local news outlets to find special events, attractions, deals and specials during the time you determine is best for travel.
Utilize resources such as local attractions' Web sites to secure deals and coupons for the activities you plan.
There are countless Web-based deal sites, group coupon retailers and special offers to be found to make your trip to Anchorage affordable and enjoyable.
Prepare for the unexpected if you are timing a trip to Anchorage during the winter months.
During the summer and fall, temperatures in Anchorage can climb as high as the 70s.
However, winters in Anchorage most closely resemble what travelers to ski resorts experience.
Preparing for weather conditions when you time your trip to Anchorage is advisable.
Pack clothing that is easy to layer and wear for various activities planned during your vacation.
Bring comfortable walking shoes, which will prove a great choice during all seasons.
Depending upon the activities you choose when timing your trip to Anchorage, such as fishing and hiking, you may need to pack several footwear options and necessary equipment.
Review transportation options and pre-determine how you will get around the city.
Some visitors to Anchorage opt to stay near the airport for convenience upon arrival and prior to departure.
Consider your schedule and proximity to events and attractions when timing your Anchorage vacation.