personality.First ask yourself :
Evaluate your fitness level, where do you lie on the endurance scale?
Reality Check Physical Requisites before completeing racehour bike ride with minimal breaks
+ hour swim open water
+ hour run
Have you competed in triathlons before?
If you answered no to any of these questions, please review and build up from This wikiHow
Plan out when and which race you want to complete in.
Plan your training phases accordingly in the weeks leading up to your race.
Record your training sessions
List weekly mileage totals, how you felt and any unusual or key things during the training session for future reference right after your workout
Do not skip days.
It is important to keep track of your mileage and progress and to adapt your training as such.
Start out in 4 week cycles.
The first 3 weeks is mileage and intensity building by 5-10% each week depending on your training level and experience.
The last week of the cycle is an easy recovery week where intensity and mileage volume is backed down to the beginning intensity and duration of theweek cycle.
Split up your days into morning and afternoon and/or night unless it s a brick workout and you are to follow one after the other.
Always follow a quality harder workout with an easy training session for two-day sessions
Be aware of your technique in cycling, swimming, and running.
Perfecting these shaves off major time in your race.
Better technique means being quicker, with less energy.
With longer distances in a race, technique makes a big impact.
Proper bike fitting, stroke technique and running economy and fitted equipment can help you.
Put in as many miles you can biking, swimming, and running.
Spend 20-25 hours per week training.
Professionals spend 30-40 hours per week
Focus on bike endurance distance training.
You recover faster from biking and swimming more than running.
This gives you a greater endurance boost with quicker recovery.
Cycling endurance can be transferred to running endurance.
The bike leg is the major portion of the race
Adjust your training more to the sport you are weakest in.
Take one day off each week throughout your training.
This allows for recovery and rebuilding enhancing your endurance.
You can recover faster from harder bike and swim workouts
Do not to put a quality bike and run on the same day unless it s a brick workout
Don t increase your easy week mileage if you are tired.
If it s during the 3 week building cycle keep your mileage at the same level or consider an easier recovery week if your body is not able to continue and start over the 4 week building cycle.
Complete 2 long runs and 2 long bike rides per month and alter these each week
Place a couple of bike tempos in your distance rides, it will increase your stamina.
Bike the distance of your race, and the last 40-60 minutes at a slightly faster pace, and then run 20 to 30 minutes at your planned race paces.
This is a very hard workout(a.k.a brick workout)
Do intervals; a 2-5 minute burst at a hard pace with 2-4 minute recovery and completing anywhere from 3 to 15 of these intervals, depending on the work load and duration and your fitness level.
Recover between intervals for 2 minutes.
This makes it harder on the body and full recovery doesn t happen before each interval.
In more thanminutes your ATP stores are completely refueled.
Train with a couple high speed workouts
Helps you focus on faster paces and make you pay attention to your technique.
Hill workouts are awesome and prepare you for the course
A good bike hill takes 2 -3 minutes and 4-12 repetitions.
Running hills arem to 400m with 4 -12 repetitions.
Put in quality running instead of quantity.
For instance, you should insert a quicker, up-paced tempo in the last 20-30 minutes of a long run and get the added benefit of both workouts.
Complete one hard track session per week
Start in Phase I building a base, lasting 2-16 weeks depending on your race schedule and pace of conditioning.
Swim 3 times a week, every other day first focusing on technique in the beginning of the week, then easy distance swim, then long swim
Continue into Phase II, the Maintenance stage with interval speed work, lasting 8-12 weeks in training volume.
This training phase is adapted to the type of race you are competing in.
Advance into Phase III Race tailoring and pacing, lasting 8-12 weeks
Taper at least 2 weeks before your race.
Optimally 3 weeks.
Downplay your mileage but maintain your endurance fitness level and train at race pace.
You will not gain anything from any excess workouts outside of your tapering leading up to your event.
It will only hinder your race.
Tapering will help your race and increase your energy and allow your muscles to fully recover and be fresh before your race.
This increases your chance for a successful race.
Reduce your long run or bike by half
Calculate the speeds and split rates that you are capable and want to compete at before your big race.
Take a day off 2 days before the race
Swim 300-500 yd/m 10-20 min, bike 20-30 min, and run 10-15 min at race pace the day before your race
Plan out your gear that you are going to wear for your race and it should be pre-tested to prevent any discrepancies.
Make a point to enjoy the race.
Quitting the race can happen if it's not enjoyable to you.
Give yourself adequate time to recover after your race and take care of your body.