worseFind out if ferrets are legal at your destination and in the areas you are travelling through.
Ferrets are currently illegal in the states of California and Hawaii as well as the city of New York, to name a few.
To find out if ferrets are legal in an area contact the department of fish and game in that area and search for restricted animals.
Make sure your ferret is up to date on vaccines.
Ferrets require a series of two distemper vaccines and an annual rabies vaccine.
Have your vaccine records on hand while you travel.
Decide what mode of travel you will use.
It is best to travel by car with a ferret.
In your car you can decide when to stop for food, play, and rest.
Also, in a car you can control what temperatures your ferret is exposed to.
If you need to travel by plane, be sure to check with your airline what their policy is on ferrets.
Currently, the only airlines that allow ferrets in the cabin are Delta and America West.
Get a suitable carrier or travel cage.
If you are travelling by plane check with the airline what their requirements are for the carrier.
If you are travelling by car, find a travel cage for your ferret.
It needs to have a sleep area; a way to mount a litter box, a food dish, and a water bottle; have a deep basin (to prevent spillage), and be escape-proof.
You can get a dog crate and drill holes in it to mount a hammock, food dish, and litter pan.
It is easy to mount a water bottle on the wire door of dog crates.
Be prepared with all your ferret necessities.
You will need plenty of ferret food, toys, treats, a harness and leash, extra litter, and a first aid kit for your ferret.
Look through the yellow pages in the areas where you will be for veterinarians who treat ferrets and have their phone numbers ready just in case.
Let your ferret get used to the carrier or travel cage Let your ferret play in the carrier or sleep in it overnight.
This will let him get comfortable with his new living quarters and reduce stress on the trip.
Make sure the travel cage is secure.
Placement in your car is important.
You don't want the cage to fall if you take a sharp turn.
Strapping the cage to a seat belt can keep him safe from a falling cage.
Maintain a comfortable temperature for your ferret.
Keep your ferret out of direct sunlight in your car as ferrets overheat easily.
Never ever leave your ferret alone in the car during summertime.
If you feel warm in the front seat, aim some air conditioning vents back his way to keep him cool, too.
If you're travelling by plane, don't let your ferret travel in the cargo area during summer months.