chat.Collect all related clues and local information, such as manners, culture, ..., etc. A " Lonely Planet" travel book is recommended.
"Lonely Planet" publishes comprehensive travel books for almost every country and major city.
In this guide, the traveler can read about the place's culture, history, sights, recreation, hotels, restaurants, night life, camp sights, warnings, safety precautions, etc.
Realize that a foreign culture may find attributes of your culture offensive.
For example, back-slapping and touching a child's head can be extremely offensive in some cultures.
Even shaking hands can be offensive.
Try reading a "Culture Shock" series book of the specific country while planning the trip.
Be prepared to witness cultures and customs that you might find offensive.
Do your research and brace yourself.
Familiarize oneself with the place's current affairs and avoid unsafe areas.
Check the news media and U.S. State Department for any warnings regarding that country.
Lone female travelers must be especially careful.
For instance, Japan and Sweden should be safe for lone women travelers while taking normal precautions.
Women should NEVER travel alone to Africa and the Middle East.
There is a long list of countries deemed safe and unsafe for women.
Do your research and use common sense.
Research the climate, season and weather of the place you are visting.
This will help choose the proper clothing for maximum comfort.
(i.e. If you are hiking in the rainforest in rainy season, bring hiking shoes and rain gear)
Find out everything the area has to offer for recreation and sight-seeing.
A "Lonely Planet" travel book or similiar should be read beforehand and taken along as a guide.
Ask people who have already traveled there for recommendations and warnings.
Prepare all travel necessities ahead of time, such as travelers checks, visa, passport, medicine for emergency, foul-weather clothing, recreational equipment, etc. Passports and Visas will take up to months to process.
Purchase foreign currency before you leave.
You will be happy to have it when you land tired and disoriented in a foreign airport.
Most major U.S. banks sell all types of foreign currency, except for embargoed currency.
If traveling to a remote region, bring a wad of cash and guard it with your life.
If visiting a safe, developed region, credit cards and ATM cards should work fine.
Research that before you leave.
Learn useful phrases in the language of your destination.
Not everyone speaks English.
For international flights, arrive at the airport at least three hours before the flight leaves.
Check the status of the flight online.
Book a non-stop flight if possible.
Don't choose a multi-stop flight to save money.
That will only cost more due to delays and loss of vacation time.
Non-stop flights also help avoid loss of luggage and theft that could occur at connecting airports.
Take care of yourself when you face something unexpected.
In poor countries, avoid taxi cabs like a plague.
Although some taxi drivers are honest and decent, many are criminals eager to steal from a lone tourist...or worse.
For example, in Rio De Janiero, tourists are sometimes kidnapped for ransom by taxi drivers.
For safety, take a hotel shuttle, or ask your reputable hotel to arrange for transportation.
The extra cost is worth saving your life.
If traveling to a poor country, stay only in upscale, western style hotels.
The extra cost is worth your safety, health and comfort.
If traveling on a budget, choose wealthy, developed countries for travel.
Hostels and cheap hotels in third world countries can be unclean and unsafe.
If you can only travel to a third world country on a shoestring, don't go there.