ml) 1 Pick the best time to go.
The busiest tourist season is December to February when mainlanders want to escape winter weather.
Some of the best weather is found in April, May, September and October.
These are also the months when you can find some good travel bargains since lodging prices are lowest between April and mid-December.
Spend some time on the beach, Hanalei Bay.
Decide which area to stay in.
From your 'home base' you can easily drive to any part of the island within an hour or two but you'll spend most of your time nearby.
So select your home base carefully.
The south shore has the most sunshine and dry days with Poipu offering many types of lodging and great beaches.
The east shore has several large resorts, great beaches, the most shopping, and is closest to the airport.
North shore is more quiet and peaceful but tends to get more rain.
Shop for the right accommodations.
Hotel resorts are usually right on the beach.
Their prices vary but without a kitchen you'll pay to eat out every meal.
Condo rentals come in a great variety of prices, styles, and locations.
More spacious than a hotel room, they offer kitchens for inexpensive meals and often have a small, private patio or deck.
For families or larger groups consider either a rental home or a collection of condos close by one another or opt for a house rental.
VBRO.com is a great place to find properties for rent by island owners.
If you are traveling alone or on a very tight budget, consider staying at one of the island's backpacker's hostels.
This is also a good way to meet other travelers.
Shop for deals.
There are all sorts of alerts set up by the online travel vendors that could get you to Kaua'i, plus hotel and car for less than you would pay to book these separately.
If your vacation time frame is flexible, you'll have even more choices.
Balance your week between lazy days at the beach or around the pool with sightseeing excursion.
Some popular attractions are: snorkeling, drive to Waimea Canyon, boat tour of Na Pali coast, helicopter tour of whole island, kayaking one of the many rivers, and attending a traditional luau.