[subsumed][subsumed][graphic]

PRINCETON

UNIVERSITY

LIBRARY

In memory of

Rabbi Dr. Irving Levey Former Hillel Rabbi at Princeton

[graphic]
[graphic]

JFounfcation Atones to an&

BOOKS BY JAMES ALLEN

The Eight Pillars Op Prosperity

From Poverty To Power

All These Things Added

Byways Of Blessedness

The Life Triumphant

Above Life's Turmoil

The Mastery Of Destiny

As A Man Thinketh

Our From The Heart

Through The Gate Of Good

From Passion To Peace

Man:

Kino Of Mind, Body, And
Circumstance

Poems Of Peace
Light On Life's Difficulties

Foundation Stones To Happiness
And Success

Meditations: A Year Book

[graphic][graphic][graphic][graphic][merged small][merged small][ocr errors]
[merged small][merged small][graphic][merged small][ocr errors]

COPYRIGHT, 1913, BY THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY

Published September, 1913

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

[ocr errors]

32101 020221030

More Good is the recompense of Good;
More Virtue is the reward of Virtue;
More capacity is the croivn of Use.
In Goodness, Virtue, and the wise use of all

our powers is all happiness.
Other forms of happiness are fleeting,
But this abides, and does not pass aivay.

[ocr errors]

JForetoorb

HOW does a man begin the building of a house? He first secures a plan of the
proposed edifice, and then proceeds to build according to the plan,
scrupulously following it in every detail, beginning with the foundation.
Should he neglect the beginning—the beginning on a mathematical plan—his labor
would be wasted, and his building, should it reach completion without tumbling
to pieces, would be insecure and worthless. The same law holds good in any
important work: the right beginning and first essential is a definite mental
plan on which to build.

Nature will have no slipshod work, no slovenliness, and she annihilates
confusion, or rather, confusion is in itself annihilated. Order, definiteness,
purpose, eternally prevail, and he who in his operations ignores these
mathematical elements at once deprives himself of substantiality, completeness,
happiness, and success.

James Allen

EDITOR'S PREFACE

This is one of the last manuscripts written by James Allen. Like all his works
it is eminently practical. He never wrote theories, or for the sake of writing;
but he wrote when he had a message, and it became a message only when he had
lived it out in his own life, and knew that it was good. Thus he wrote facts, 
which he had proven by practice.

To live out the teaching of this book faithfully in every detail of life will
lead one to more than happiness and success— even to Blessedness, Satisfaction,
and Peace.

Lily L. Allen

Eryngoleu

Ilfracombe, England

Contents

PAQB

RIGHT PRINCIPLES 1

SOUND METHODS 11

TRUE ACTIONS 21

TRUE SPEECH 29

EQUAL-MINDEDNESS 39

GOOD RESULTS 45

fttgftt Principles

Principles

IT is wise to know what comes first, and what to do first. To begin anything in
the middle or at the end is to make a muddle of it. The athlete who began by
breaking the tape would not receive the prize. He must begin by facing the
starter and toeing the mark, and even then a good start is important if he is
to win. The pupil does not begin with algebra and literature, but with counting
and ABC. So in life—the business men who begin at the bottom, achieve the more
enduring success; and the religious men who reach the highest heights of
spiritual knowledge and wisdom are they who have stooped to serve a patient
apprenticeship to the humbler tasks, and have not scorned the common
experiences of humanity, or overlooked the lessons to be learned from them.

The first things in a sound life—and therefore in a. truly happy and successful
life—are right principles. Without right principles to begin with, there will
be wrong practices to follow with, and a bungled and wretched life to end with.
All the infinite variety of calculations which tabulate the commerce and
science of the world, come out of the ten figures; all the hundreds of
thousands of books which constitute the literature of the world, and perpetuate
its thought and genius, are built up from the twenty-six letters. The greatest
astronomer cannot ignore the ten simple figures. The profoundest man of genius
cannot dispense with the twenty-six simple characters. The fundamentals in all
things are few and simple ; yet without them there is no knowledge and no
achievement. The fundamentals— the basic principles—in life, or true living,
are also few and simple, and to learn them thoroughly, and study how to apply
them to all the details of life, is to avoid confusion, and to secure a
substantial foundation for the orderly building up of an invincible character
and a permanent success; and to succeed in comprehending those principles in
their innumerable ramifications in the labyrinth of conduct, is to become a
Master of Life.

The first principles in life are principles of conduct. To name them is easy.
As mere words they are on all men's lips, but as fixed sources of action,
admitting of no compromise, few have learned them. In this short talk I will
deal with five only of these principles. These five are among the simplest of
the root principles of life, but they are those that come nearest to the
every-day life, for they touch the artisan, the business man, the householder,
the citizen, at every point. Not one of them can be dispensed with but at
severe cost, and he who perfects himself in their application will rise
superior to many of the troubles and failures of life, and will come into these
springs and currents of thought which flow

harmoniously toward the regions of enduring success. First among these
principles is—

Duty. A much-hackneyed word, I know, but it contains a rare jewel for him who
will seek it by assiduous application. The principle of duty means strict
adherence to one's own business, and just as strict non-interference in the
business of others. The man who is continually instructing others, gratis, how
to manage their affairs, is the one who most mismanages his own.

Duty also means undivided attention to the matter in hand, intelligent
concentration of the mind on the work to be done; it includes all that is meant
by thoroughness, exactness, and efficiency. The details of duties differ with
individuals, and each man should know his own duty better than he knows his
neighbor's, and better than his neighbor knows his; but although the working
details differ, the principle is always the same. Who has mastered the demands
of duty?

Honesty is the next principle. It means not cheating or overcharging another.
It involves the absence of all trickery, lying and deception by word, look or
gesture. It includes sincerity, the saying what you mean, and the meaning what
you say. It scorns cringing policy and shining compliment. It builds up good
reputations, and good reputations build up good businesses, and bright joy
accompanies well-earned success. Who has scaled the heights of Honesty?

Economy is the third principle. The conservation of one's financial resources
is merely the vestibule leading toward the more spacious chambers of true
economy. It means, as well, the husbanding of one's physical vitality and
mental resources. It demands the conservation of energy by the avoidance of
enervating self-indulgences and sensual habits. It holds for its follower,
strength, endurance, vigilance, and capacity to achieve. It bestows great power
on him who learns it well. Who has realized in all its force the supreme
strength of Economy?

Liberality follows economy. It is not opposed to it. Only the man of economy
can afford to be generous. The spendthrift, whether in money, vitality, or
mental energy, wastes so much on his own miserable pleasures as to have none
left to bestow upon others. The giving of money is the smallest part of
liberality. There is a giving of thoughts, and deeds, and sympathy, the
bestowing of good-will, the being generous toward calumniators and opponents.
It is a principle that begets a noble, farreaching influence. It brings loving
friends and stanch comrades, and is the foe of loneliness and despair. Who has
measured the breadth of Liberality?

Self-control is the last of these five principles, yet the most important. Its
neglect is the cause of vast misery, innumerable failures, and tens of
thousands of financial, physical, and mental wrecks. Show me the business man
who loses his temper with a customer over some trivial matter, and I will show
you a man who, by that condition of mind, is doomed to failure. If all men
practised even the initial stages of self-control, anger, with its consuming
and destroying fire, would be unknown. The lessons of patience, purity,
gentleness, kindness and steadfastness which are contained in the principle of
self-control, are slowly learned by men, yet until they are truly learned, a
man's character and success are uncertain and insecure. Where is the man who
has perfected himself in self-control? Wherever he may be, he is a Master
indeed.

The five principles are five practices, five avenues to achievement, and five
sources of knowledge. It is an old saying and a good rule that "Practice makes
perfect," and he who would make his own the wisdom which is inherent in those
principles, must not merely have them on his lips, they must be established in
his heart. To know them, and receive what they alone can bring, he must do 
them, and give them out in his actions.

[ocr errors]

FROM the five foregoing Right Principles, when they are truly apprehended and
practised, will issue Sound Methods. Right principles are manifested in
harmonious action, and method is to life what law is to the universe.
Everywhere in the universe there is the harmonious adjustment of parts, and it
is this symmetry and harmony that reveals a cosmos, as distinguished from
chaos. So in human life, the difference between a true life and a false,
between one purposeful and effective and one purposeless and weak, is one of
method. The false life is an incoherent jumble of thoughts, passions, and
actions; the true life is an orderly adjustment of all its parts. It is all the
difference between a mass of lumber and a smoothly working efficient machine. A
piece of machinery in perfect working order is not only a useful, but an
admirable and attractive thing; but when its parts are all out of gear, and
refuse to be readjusted, its usefulness and attractiveness are gone, and it is
thrown on the scrap-heap. Likewise a life perfectly adjusted in all its parts
so as to achieve the highest point of efficiency, is not only a powerful, but
an excellent and beautiful thing; whereas a life confused, inconsistent,
discordant, is a deplorable exhibition of wasted energy.

If life is to be truly lived, method must enter into, and regulate, every
detail of it, as it enters and regulates every detail of the wondrous universe
of which we form a part. One of the distinguishing differences between a wise
man and a foolish is, that the wise man pays careful attention to the smallest
things, while the foolish man slurs over them, or neglects them altogether.
Wisdom consists in maintaining things in their right relations, in keeping all
things, the smallest as well as the greatest, in their proper places and times.
To violate order is to produce confusion and discord, and unhappiness is but
another name for discord.

The good business man knows that system is three parts of success, and that
disorder means failure. The wise man knows that disciplined, methodical living
is three parts of happiness, and that looseness means misery. What is a fool
but one who thinks carelessly, acts rashly and lives loosely? What is a wise
man but one who thinks carefully, acts calmly, and lives consistently 1

The true method does not end with the orderly arrangement of the material
things and external relations of life; this is but its beginning; it enters
into the adjustment of the mind—the discipline of the passions, the elimination
and choice of words in speech, the logical arrangement of the thoughts, and the
selection of right actions.

To achieve a life rendered sound, successful, and sweet by the pursuance of
sound

methods, one must begin, not by neglect of the little every-day things, but by
assiduous attention to them. Thus the hour of rising is important, and its
regularity significant; as also are the time of retiring to rest, and the
number of hours given to sleep. Between the regularity and irregularity of
meals, and the care and carelessness with which they are eaten, is all the
difference between a good and bad digestion (with all that this implies) and an
irritable or comfortable frame of mind, with its train of good or bad
consequences, for, attaching to these meal-times and meal-ways are matters of
both physiological and psychological significance. The due division of hours
for business and for play, not confusing the two, the orderly fitting in of all
the details of one's business, times for solitude, for silent thought and for
effective action, for eating and for abstinence—all these things must have
their lawful place in the life of him whose "daily round" is to proceed with
the minimum degree of friction, who is to get the most of usefulness,
influence, and joy out of life.

But all this is but the beginning of that comprehensive method which embraces
the whole life and being. When this smooth order and logical consistency is
extended to the words and actions, to the thoughts and desires, then wisdom
emerges from folly, and out of weakness comes power sublime. When a man so
orders his mind as to produce a beautiful working harmony between all its
parts, then he reaches the highest wisdom, the highest efficiency, the highest
happiness.

But this is the end; and he who would reach the end must begin at the
beginning. He must systematize and render logical and smooth the smallest
details of his life, proceeding step by step toward the finished
accomplishment. But each step will yield its own particular measure of strength
and gladness.

To sum up, method produces that smoothness which goes with strength and
efficiency. Discipline is method applied to the mind. It produces that calmness
which goes with power and happiness. Method is working by rule; discipline is
living by rule. But working and living are not separate; they are but two
aspects of character, of life.

Therefore, be orderly in work; be accurate in speech; be logical in thought.
Between these and slovenliness, inaccuracy, and confusion, is the difference
between success and failure, music and discord, happiness and misery.

The adoption of sound methods of working, acting, thinking,—in a word, of
living, is the surest and safest foundation for sound health, sound success,
sound peace of mind. The foundation of unsound methods will be found to be
unstable, and to yield fear and unrest even while it appears to succeed; when
failure comes, it is grievous indeed.

Crue Actions

Crue HcttonS

FOLLOWING on Right Principles and Methods, come True Actions. One who is
striving to grasp true principles and work with sound methods will soon come to
perceive that details of conduct cannot be overlooked,—that, indeed, those
details are fundamentally distinctive or creative, according to their nature,
and are, therefore, of deep significance and comprehensive importance; and this
perception and knowledge of the nature and power of passing actions will
gradually open and grow within him as an added vision, a new revelation. As he
acquires this insight, his progress will be more rapid, his pathway in life
more sure, his days more serene and peaceful; in all things he will go the true
and direct way, unswayed and untroubled by the external forces that play around
and about him. Not that he will be indifferent to the welfare and happiness of
those about him; that is quite another thing; but he will be indifferent to
their opinions, to their ignorance, to their ungoverned passions. By True
Actions, indeed, is meant acting rightly toward others, and the right-doer
knows that actions in accordance with truth are but for the happiness of those
about him, and he will do them even though an occasion may arise when some one
near to him may advise or implore him to do otherwise.

True actions may easily be distinguished from false by all who wish so to
distinguish in order that they may avoid false action, and adopt true. As in
the material world we distinguish things by their form, color, size, etc.,
choosing those things which we require, and putting by those things which are
not useful to us, so in the spiritual world of deeds, we can distinguish
between those that are bad and those that are good by their nature, their aim,
and their effect, and can choose and adopt those that are good, and ignore
those that are bad.

In all forms of progress, avoidance of the bad always precedes acceptance and
knowledge of the good, just as a child at school learns to do its lessons right
by having repeatedly pointed out to it how it has done them wrong. If one does
not know what is wrong and how to avoid it, how can he know what is right and
how to practise it? Bad, or untrue, actions are those that spring from a
consideration of one's own happiness only, and ignore the happiness of others,
that arise in violent disturbances of the mind and unlawful desires, or that
call for concealment in order to avoid undesirable complications. Good, or
true, actions are those1 that spring from a consideration for others, that
arise in calm reason and harmonious thought framed on moral principles, or that
will not involve the doer in shameful consequences if brought into the full
light of day.

The right-doer will avoid those acts of personal pleasure and gratification
which by their nature bring annoyance, pain, or suffering to others, no matter
how insignificant those actions may appear to be. He will begin by putting away
these; he will gain a knowledge of the unselfish and true by first sacrificing
the selfish and untrue. He will learn not to speak or act in anger, or envy, or
resentment, but will study how to control his mind, and will restore it to
calmness before acting; and, most important of all, he will avoid, as he would
the drinking of deadly poison, those acts of trickery, deceit, double-dealing
in order to gain some personal profit or advantage, and which lead, sooner or
later, to exposure and shame for the doer of them. If a man is prompted to do a
thing which he needs to conceal, and which he would not lawfully and frankly
defend if it were examined of witness, he should know by that, that it is a
wrong act, and therefore to be abandoned

anb ,$110000

without one further moment of consideration.

The carrying out of this principle of honesty and sincerity of action, too,
will further lead him into such a path of thoughtfulness in right-doing as will
enable him to avoid doing those things which would involve him in the deceptive
practices of other people. Before signing papers, or entering into verbal or
written arrangements, or engaging himself to others in any way at their
request, particularly if they be strangers, he will first inquire into the
nature of the work or undertaking, and so, enlightened, he will know exactly
what to do, and will be fully aware of the import of his action. To the
right-doer, thoughtlessness is a crime. Thousands of actions done with good
intent lead to disastrous consequences because they are acts of
thoughtlessness, and it is well said that "the way to hell is paved with good
intentions." The man of true actions is, above all things, thoughtful;

TRUTH is known by practice only. Without sincerity there can be no knowledge of
Truth; and true speech is the beginning of all sincerity. Truth in all its
native beauty and original simplicity consists in abandoning and not doing all
those things which are untrue, and in embracing and doing all those things
which are true. True speech is therefore one of the elementary beginnings in
the life of Truth. Falsehood, and all forms of deception; slander and all forms
of evil-speaking— these must be totally abandoned and abolished before the mind
can receive even a small degree of spiritual enlightenment. The liar and
slanderer is lost in darkness; so deep is his darkness that he cannot
distinguish between good and evil, and he persuades himself that hjs lying and
evil-speaking are necessary and good, that he is thereby protecting himself and
other people.

Let the would-be student of "higher things" look to himself and beware of
selfdelusion. If he is given to uttering words that deceive, or to speaking
evil of others —if he speaks in insincerity, envy, or malice—then he has not
yet begun to study higher things. He may be studying metaphysics, or miracles,
or psychic phenomena, or astral Bonders—he may be studying how to commune with
invisible beings, to travel invisibly during sleep, or to produce curious
phenomena—he may even study spirituality theoretically and as a mere book
study, but if he is a deceiver and a back-biter, the higher life is hidden from
him. For the higher things are these—uprightness, sincerity, innocence, purity,
kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, humility, patience, pity, sympathy,
self-sacrifice, joy, goodwill, love —and he who would study them, know them,
and make them his own, must practise them, there is no other way.

Lying and evil-speaking belong to the lowest forms of spiritual ignorance, and
there can be no such thing as spiritual enlightenment while they are practised.
Their parents are selfishness and hatred.

Slander is akin to lying, but it is even more subtle, as it is frequently
associated with indignation, and by assuming more successfully the appearance
of truth, it ensnares many who would not tell a deliberate falsehood. For there
are two sides to slander—there is the making or repeating of it, and there is
the listening to it and acting upon it. The slanderer would be powerless
without a listener. Evil words require an ear that is receptive to evil in
which they may fall, before they can flourish; therefore he who listens to a
slander, who believes it, and allows himself to be influenced against the
person whose character and reputation are defamed, is in the same position as
the one who framed or repeated the evil report. The evil-speaker is a positive
slanderer; the evil-listener is a passive slanderer. The two are co-operators
in the propagation of evil.

Slander is a common vice and a dark and deadly one. An evil report begins in
ignorance, and pursues its blind way in darkness. It generally takes its rise
in a misunderstanding. Some one feels that he, or she, has been badly treated,
and, filled with indignation and resentment, unburdens himself to his friends
and others in vehement language, exaggerating the enormity of the supposed
offence on account of the feeling of injury by which he is possessed; his
listeners, without hearing the other person's version of what has taken place,
and on no other proof than the violent words of an angry man or woman, become
cold in their attitude toward the one spoken against, and repeat to others what
they have been told, and as such repetition is always more or less inaccurate,
a distorted and altogether untrue report is soon passing from mouth to mouth.

It is because slander is such a common vice that it can work the suffering and
injury that it does. It is because so many (not deliberate wrong-doers, and
unconscious of the nature of the evil into which they so easily fall) are ready
to allow themselves to be influenced against one whom they have hitherto
regarded as honorable, that an evil report can do its deadly work. Yet its work
is only amongst those who have not altogether acquired the virtue of true
speech, the cause of which is a truth-loving mind. When one who has not
entirely freed himself from repeating or believing an evil report about
another, hears of an evil report about himself, his mind becomes aflame with
burning resentment, his sleep is broken and his peace of mind is destroyed. He
thinks the cause of all his suffering is in the other man and what that man has
said about him, and is ignorant of the truth that the root and cause of his
suffering lies in his own readiness to believe

an evil report about another. The virtuous man—he who has attained to true
speech, and whose mind is sealed against even the appearance of
evil-speaking—cannot be injured and disturbed about any evil reports concerning
himself; and although his reputation may for a time be stained In the minds of
those who are prone to suggestions of evil, his integrity remains untouched and
his character unsoiled; for no one can be stained by the evil deeds of another,
but only by his own wrong-doing. And so, through all misrepresentation,
misunderstanding, and contumely, he is untroubled and unrevengeful; his sleep
is undisturbed, and his mind remains in peace.

True speech is the beginning of a pure, wise and well-ordered life. If one
would attain to purity of life, if he would lessen the evil and suffering of
the world, let him abandon falsehood and slander in thought and word, let him
avoid even the appearance of these things, for there are no lies and slanders
so deadly as those which are half-truths, and let him not be a participant in
evil-speaking by listening to it. Let him also have compassion on the
evil-speaker, knowing how such a one is binding himself to suffering and
unrest; for no liar can know the bliss of Truth; no slanderer can enter the
kingdom of peace.

By the words which he utters is a man's spiritual condition declared; by these
also is he finally and infallibly adjudged, for as the Divine Master of the
Christian world has declared:—"By thy words shalt thou be justified, and by thy
words shalt thou be condemned."

TO be equally minded is to be peacefully minded, for a man cannot be said to
have arrived at peace who allows his mind to be disturbed and thrown off the
balance by occurrences.

The man of wisdom is dispassionate, and meets all things with the calmness of a
mind in repose and free from prejudice. He is not a partisan, having put away
passion, and he is always at peace with himself and the world, not taking sides
nor defending himself, but sympathizing with all.

The partisan is so convinced that his own opinion and his own side are right,
and all that goes contrary to them is wrong, that he cannot think there is any
good in the other opinion and the other side. He lives in a continual fever of
attack and defence, and has no knowledge of the quiet peace of an equal mind.

The equal-minded man watches himself in order to check and overcome even the
appearance of passion and prejudice in his mind, and by so doing he develops
sympathy for others, and comes to understand their position and particular
state of mind; and as he comes to understand others, he perceives the folly of
condemning them and opposing himself to them. Thus there grows up in his heart
a divine charity which cannot be limited, but which is extended to all things
that live and strive and suffer.

When a man is under the sway of passion and prejudice he is spiritually blind.
Seeing nothing but good in his own side, and nothing but evil in the other, he
cannot see anything as it really is, not even his own side; and not
understanding himself, he cannot understand the hearts of others, and thinks it
is right that he should condemn them. Thus there grows up in his heart a dark
hatred for those who refuse to see with him and who condemn him in return, he
becomes separated from his fellow-men, and confines himself to a narrow
torture-chamber of his own making.

Sweet and peaceful are the days of the equal-minded man, fruitful in good, and
rich in manifold blessings. Guided by wisdom, he avoids those pathways which
lead down to hatred and sorrow and pain, and takes those which lead up to love
and peace and bliss. The occurrences of life do not trouble him, nor does he
grieve over those things which are regarded by mankind as grievous, but which
must befall all men in the ordinary course of nature. He is neither elated by
success nor cast down by failure. He sees the events of his life arrayed in
their proper proportions, and can find no room for selfish wishes or vain
regrets, for vain anticipations and childish disappointments.

And how is this equal-mindedness—this blessed state of mind and life—acquired?
Only by overcoming one's self, only by purifying one's own heart, for the
purification of the heart leads to unbiassed comprehension, unbiassed
comprehension leads to equal-mindedness, and equal-mindedness leads to peace.
The impure man is swept helplessly away on the waves of passion; the pure man
guides himself into the harbor of rest. The fool says, "I have an opinion"; the
wise man goes about his business.

[ocr errors]

OSoob

A CONSIDERABLE portion of the happenings of life come to us without any direct 
choosing on our part, and such happenings are generally regarded as having no
relation to our will or character, but as appearing fortuitously, as occurring
without a cause. Thus one is spoken of as being "lucky," and another "unlucky,"
the inference being that each has received something which he never earned,
never caused. Deeper thought and a clearer insight into life convince us,
however, that nothing happens without a cause, and that cause and effect are
always related in perfect adjustment and harmony. This being so, every
happening directly affecting us is intimately related to our own will and
character, is, indeed, an effect justly related to a cause having its seat in
our consciousness. In a word, involuntary happenings of life are the results of
our own thoughts and deeds. This, I admit, is not apparent on the surface, but
what fundamental law, even in the physical universe, is so apparent? If
thought, investigation, and experiment are necessary to the discovery of the
principles which relate one material atom to another, even so are they
imperative to the perception and understanding of the mode of action which
relate one mental condition to another; and such modes, such laws, are known by
the right-doer, by him who has acquired an understanding mind by the practice
of true actions.

We reap as we sow. Those things which come to us, though not by our own
choosing, are by our causing. The drunkard did not choose the delirium tremens
or insanity which overtook him, but he caused it by his own deeds. In this case
the law is plain to all minds, but where it is not so plain, it is none the
less true. Within ourselves is the deep-seated cause of all our sufferings, the
spring of all our joys. Alter the inner world of thoughts, and the outer world
of events will cease to bring you sorrow; make the heart pure, and to you all
things will be pure, all occurrences happy and in true order.

"Within yourselves deliverance must besought,

Each man his prison makes. Each hath such lordship as the loftiest ones; Nay,
for with Powers above, around,

below

As with all flesh and whatsoever lives,
Act maketh joy or woe."

Our life is good or bad, enslaved or free, according to its causation in our
thoughts, for out of these thoughts spring all our deeds; and from these deeds
come equitable results. We cannot seize good results violently, like a thief,
and claim and enjoy them, but we can bring them to pass by setting in motion
the causes within ourselves.

Men strive for money, sigh for happiness, and would gladly possess wisdom, yet
fail to secure these things, while they see others to whom these blessings
appear to come unbidden. The reason is that they have generated causes which
prevent the fulfilment of their wishes and efforts.

Each life is a perfectly woven net-work of causes and effects, of efforts (or
lack of efforts) and results, and good results can only be reached by
initiating good efforts, good causes. The doer of true actions, who pursues
sound methods grounded on right principles, will not need to strive and
struggle for good results; they will be there as the effects of his righteous
rule of life. He will reap the fruit of his own actions and the reaping will be
in gladness and peace.

This truth of sowing and reaping in the moral sphere is a simple one, yet men
are slow to understand and accept it. We have been told by a Wise One that "the
children of darkness are wiser in their day than the children of light," and
who would

expect, in the material world, to reap and eat where he had not sown and
planted? Or who would expect to reap wheat in the field where he had sown
tares, and would fall to weeping and complaining if he did not? Yet this is
just what men do in the spiritual field of mind and deed. They do evil, and
expect to get from it good, and when the bitter harvesting comes in all its
ripened fulness, they fall into despair, and bemoan the hardness and injustice
of their lot, usually attributing it to the evil deeds of others, refusing even
to admit the possibility of its cause being hidden in themselves, in their own
thoughts and deeds. The children of light—those who are searching for the
fundamental principles of right living with a view to making themselves into
wise and happy beings—must train themselves to observe this law of cause and
effect in thought, word and deed, as implicitly and obediently as the gardener
obeys the law of sowing and reaping. He does not even question the law; he
recognizes and obeys it. When the wisdom which he instinctively practises in
his garden, is practised by men in the garden of their minds—when the law of
the sowing of deeds is so fully recognized that it can no longer be doubted or
questioned—then it will be just as faithfully followed by the sowing of those
actions which will bring about a reaping of happiness and well-being for all.
As the children of matter obey the laws of matter, so let the children of
spirit obey the laws of spirit, for the law of matter and the law of spirit are
one; they are but two aspects of one thing; the outworking of one principle in
opposite directions.

If we observe right principles or causes, wrong effects cannot possibly accrue.
If we pursue sound methods, no shoddy thread can find its way into the web of
our life, no rotten brick enter into the building of our character to render it
insecure; and if we do true actions, what but good results can come to pass;
for to say that good causes can produce bad effects is to say that nettles can
be reaped from a sowing of corn.

He who orders his life along the moral lines thus briefly enunciated, will
attain to such a state of insight and equilibrium as to render him permanently
happy and perennially glad; all his efforts will be seasonably planted; all the
issues of his life will be good, and though he may not become a millionaire—as
indeed he will have no desire to become such—he will acquire the gift of peace,
and true success will wait upon him as its commanding master.

[merged small][graphic][merged small][subsumed][subsumed][subsumed][graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[subsumed][subsumed][graphic]

PRINCETON

UNIVERSITY

LIBRARY

In memory of

Rabbi Dr. Irving Levey Former Hillel Rabbi at Princeton

[graphic]
[graphic]
