[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[merged small][merged small][graphic][merged small]
[graphic][graphic]

HOME ECONOMICS

HOME ECONOMICS

A GUIDE TO HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT IN-
CLUDING THE PROPER TREATMENT OP THE
MATERIALS ENTERING INTO THE CONSTRUC-
TION AND THE FURNISHING OF THE HOUSE

BY

MARIA PARLOA

FOUNDER OF THE ORIGINAL COOKING-SCHOOL IN BOSTON — AUTHOR
OF "KITCHEN COMPANION," "NEW COOK BOOK AND MARKET
GUIDE," "APPLEDORE COOK BOOK," "YOUNG HOUSE-
KEEPER," "FIRST PRINCIPLES OF HOUSEHOLD
MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY," ETC., ETC.

[merged small][graphic][merged small]

Copyright, 1898,
By The Century Co.

The De Vinne Press.

PREFACE

"home economics," "domestic science," "domestic economy," and "household
economy" are all terms which are applied to the same science (the management of
the home). In Europe, where this subject has received much more attention than
in this country, the term "domestic economy" is the one generally employed.

Home economics covers a vast field, to which nearly all the arts and sciences
contribute. Few women have the time to devote to investigation and experiment
in all the lines that bear upon the making of the home. In these days of
specializing, it would take a large library and much time to cull from the
various sources the kinds of knowledge that bear directly upon the making and
the management of the home. The aim of this book is to supply such knowledge in
a clear, practical, and concise manner.

There seems to be a need for a book that deals with the necessities of daily
home life, that teaches the housekeeper the materials and forces with which she
has to deal, and the way in which they should be treated. This book has been
planned upon this basis. It treats of the conditions which make the soil under
the house and in the immediate neighborhood healthful or unhealthful, the
changes in water caused by proper and improper conditions, the sources and
characteristics of fuels and oils, besides giving careful consideration to the
material that enters into the construction and the furnishing of the home.

V

The chapters on marketing and carving are planned in a novel way, showing by
the skeleton the portion of the bone in each cut of meat. Then are given the
position and structure of the muscles of the animal, the changed position of
the bones and muscles in the hind quarter when the animal is hung, until the
final cutting into joints by the butcher, and the cutting into portions by the
carver. Any one who will study these two chapters carefully cannot fail to get
a clear and practical knowledge of these two important branches of home
economics.

The care of wood finish and of polished floors is becoming more and more a
necessary part of the education of the housekeeper. Beautiful floors and
finishes are being constantly ruined for lack of proper treatment. The
polishing of floors opens a new avenue of employment for careful, intelligent
men.

While there has been no attempt made toward giving receipts for cookery, the
chapter on foods will be found to embody the principles underlying all good
cookery.

Every statement has been thoroughly tested by the author in the years that she
has devoted to the study and experiments which have made this volume possible.

Maria Parloa.

CONTENTS

PAGE

Preface v

CHAPTER I

Some Essentials Op The Home 1

Selecting the house.—Size and style of the house.—The skeleton

and circulatory system of the house.—The situation and foundation

of the house.—The foundation-walls.—A closet for preserves and

similar supplies.—General plan of the house.—The kitchen and

pantries.—Pantries.—Materials used in building.—The interior

finish of the house.—The chimney and furnace-pipes.—The plumb-

ing.—Country houses.— Drainage and earth-closets.

CHAPTER H

The Water-supply 27

Situation and depth of well or spring.—Methods of softening and

[merged small][merged small][ocr errors]

CHAPTER IV

Daily Routine Op Household Work 61

General directions for sweeping and dusting.—To clean matting.—

How to wash windows.—Cleaning copper and brasses.—How to

clean painted woodwork.—Care of window-sashes.—Care of dining-

room.—Care of tableware.—Care of kitchen and pantries.—Care

of the floors.—Care of kitchen utensils.—Tinware.—Woodenware.

—The tea-kettle.—Tea-pots and coffee-pots.—Care of the refrig-

erator.—The sink.—To clean an iron sink.—Care of cellar.—

Household refuse.—Care of the plumbing.

CHAPTER V

The Laundry 98

Soaking the clothes.—Washing the clothes.—Summary of the work.

—To prepare bluing-water.—Flannels.—Colored flannels.—Sum-

mary.—Blankets.—Colored cotton articles.—Washing with starch.

—To make the starch.—Silk undergarments.—Washing with kero-

sene.—Lace curtains.—Starching.—To make gum-arabic starch.—

Stiffening with gelatin.—Boiled starch.—Raw starch.—Hanging

clothes out to dry.—Folding clothes for ironing.—Preparing

for ironing.—Folding the clothes after ironing.—A few words about

the clothes-wringer.—The laundry.—How to dissolve soap.—How

to clean irons.

CHAPTER VI

Care Of Lighting Appliances 126

Management of gas.—Oil-lamps.—Some facts in regard to pe-

troleum.

CHAPTER VII

Fuel And Fires 133

Kinds of fuel.—Care of the furnace fire.—The morning work.—

The cold-air box.—Heating-stoves.—Care of the range.—Some

points to remember in the treatment of range fires.—Grate fires.—

Don'ts.—To remove clinkers. •

CHAPTER Vni

Table Service 148

General arrangements of the table.—The breakfast-table.—The

dinner-table.—The luncheon-table.—The tea-table.—Waiting on

the table.—Ceremonious entertaining.—Some points on table

etiquette.—The duties of the waitress.—Protecting the table from

hot dishes.

[ocr errors]

CHAPTER IX

PAGE

Marketing 168

The muscular system.—Some characteristics of the muscular flesh

of animals.—The minor parts of the animal.—Game and poultry.—

Care and purchase of general supplies.

CHAPTER X

The Art Of Carving 202

Some suggestions about carving.—General remarks on serving fish.

CHAPTER XI

Food 222

Brief outline of the processes of digestion.—Fruits.—Fats.—Princi-

ples underlying the cooking of albuminous substances.—Principles

underlying the cooking of vegetable substances.—The manipulation

of materials.—Flavors and odors.—Economy in food.—Growth and

repair.—Heat and force.—Vegetables with little or no starch.

CHAPTER XII

Woods And Polished Floors 262

Polished floors.—Hard-wood floors.—Waxed floors.—To clean and

wax at the same time.—Summary.—Stained floors waxed.—General

directions for oiling floors.—Summary.—Cleaning with petroleum.—

Appliances used in polishing floors.—Piazza floors.

CHAPTER XIII

Treatment Of Wood Finishes 279

To restore color and finish to wood.—Summary.—How to make pads

for wood finishing.—To clean and restore the polish on woods.—Sum-

mary.—To clean the woodwork of furniture.

CHAPTER XIV

Oils: Their Use And Behavior 288

Lubricating oils.—Cleaning oils.—Oils used as foods and medicines.—

Cotton-seed oil—Castor-oil.—Cod-liver oil.—Spontaneous combustion.

[blocks in formation]

Some points on laying floor-coverings.—The finishing, filling, and

staining of floors.—How to prepare the filler.—Staining with chem-

icals.—The preparation and application of stains.—Summary.—Points

on mixing stains. —Stains made from colors ground in oil.—Stains

made from colors in powder.—To graduate the stains.—Things im-

portant to remember.—Gluing furniture and other articles.—How

to mend plaster casts and picture-frames.—To clean plaster casts.—

To wax and stain casts.—Care of small marbles and alabaster.—To

clean bronzes.—To polish the brass trimmings of furniture.—Some

uses of lime-water.—Chloride of lime.—Liquid soda.—Javelle water.

—Carbolic acid.—Solution of oxalic acid.—Furniture-cleaner and-pol-

isher.—Encaustic No. 1.—Encaustic No. 2.—Wax for polishing furni-

ture.—Materials for care of furniture and floors.—Fullers, earth.—To

clean with fullers, earth.—To make scouring-balls.—To clean with

scouring-balls.—How to put new linings in boots and shoes.—To clean

combs and brushes.—To clean coat collars.—Aids in darning large

holes.—How to revive and straighten whalebone.—To prevent stains

showing through whitewash or paper.—To prevent the corners of

rugs from curling.—How to heat inflammable substances.—Precau-

tions to be taken in cleaning.—Frames for dress-waists and men,s

clothing.—Convenient clothes-rack.—Steel wool and steel shavings.

—Insects and vermin.—Cockroaches.—Thermometers in the kitchen.

—The melting-point of some metals and alloys.—The melting-point of

some fats and sugar.—Bacteriology.—Household accounts, and the

division of the income.

[merged small][ocr errors]

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

FIO. PAGE

1 Plan Of Cold Room In Cellar 10

2 Plan Of Kitchen, China-closet, And Pantries . . . .13

3 Plan Of China-closet And Pantry 15

4 Plan Of Cold Pantry 16

5 Plan Of Closets For Cleaning-appliances, Wraps, Etc. . . 16

6 Kitchen Dresser 17

7 Kitchen Dresser 18

8 Sewer-gas Traps 24

9 Stove Showing Direction Of Waves Of Heat When Smoke

Damper Is Opened 142

9a Stove Showing Direction Of Waves Of Heat When SmokeDamper Is Closed 143

10 Skeleton Of Ox, Showing Location Of The Bones In The Va

Rious Cuts Of Meat 174

11 Muscular Fiber, Showing The Arrangement In Bundles . . 175

12 Muscular Fiber, Partially Separated Into Fibrils . . .175

13 Muscular Fiber, Cut Across The Grain 175

14 Muscular System Of An Ox, Showing The Direction In Which

The Muscles Run, And Where The Different Cuts Come From 177

15 Showing Changed Position Of Thigh-bone When The Hind Quar

Ter Of The Animal Is Hung 179

16 Showing Changed Position Of Muscles When Hind Quarter Is

Hung 179

17 Side Of Beef—Inside 181

18 Side Of Beef—New York Method Of Cutting .... 182

19 Showing Method Of Cutting Sirloin Steaks .... 184

20 Hip-bone Steak • . . . .184

xii LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

FIG. PAGE

21 Flat-bone Steak . 185

22 Round-bone Steak 185

23 Short Or "Delmonico" Steak 185

24 Side Of Mutton, Showing Method Of Cutting .... 189

25 Showing Method Of Carving Sirloin Or Porterhouse Roast . 206

26 Showing Method Of Carving Roast Ribs Of Beef . . . 207

27 Showing Method Of Carving Round Of Beef .... 207

28 Showing Method Of Carving Leg Of Mutton .... 207

29 Showing Method Of Carving Saddle Of Mutton . . . 209

30 Showing Method Of Carving Fore Quarter Of Lamb . . 210

31 Showing Method Of Carving Breast Of Veal .... 210

32 Showing Method Of Carving A Shoulder Of Mutton . . 210

33 Showing Method Of Carving The Under Part Of The Shoulder 210

34 Showing Position Of Shoulder-bone 211

35 Showing Position Of Muscles In Shoulder . . . .211

36 Showing Method Of Carving A Ham 212

37 Showing Method Of Carving A Tongue 212

38 Showing Method Of Carving Haunch Of Venison . . . 213

39 Showing Method Of Carving Roast Pig 213

40 Showing Position Of Divided Roast Pig On Platter . . . 214

41 Showing Method Of Carving Turkey 214

42 Showing Method Of Carving Roast Duck 218

43 Showing A Second Method Of Carving Roast Duck . . . 219

44 Showing Method Of Carving Small Fish 220

45 Showing Method Of Carving Cod's Head And Shoulder . . 220

46 Showing Method Of Carving Salmon, Etc 220

47 Showing Method Of Carving Flatfish 220

48 Showing How The Annual Layers Are Arranged In A Log Of

Wood 265

49 Showing Rift And Slash In A Pine Board 266

50 Showing The Method Of Cutting A Log 266

51 Showing Manner Of Cutting Carpet For Register . . . 314

52 Showing Convenient Clothes-rack 340

HOME ECONOMICS

HOME ECONOMICS

CHAPTER I

SOME ESSENTIALS OF THE HOME

Selecting the house. Size and style of the house. The skeleton and circulatory
system of the house. The situation and foundation of the house. The
foundation-walls. A closet for preserves and similar supplies. General plan of
the house. The kitchen and pantries. Pantries. Materials used in building. The
interior finish of the house. The chimney and furnace-pipes. The plumbing.
Country houses—drainage and earth-closets.

THE house does not make the home, but it has a great influence on the health
and character of the inmates. When one lives in a rented house it is not
possible to control all the conditions, as one can when building a house; but
certainly one should be careful to select a home in a neighborhood where the
drainage and water are good, and the people are of a class agreeable to know.
If one has children, it is important that the home be near good schools.

SELECTING THE HOUSE

When hiring a house, the would-be tenant should examine it carefully before
signing a lease. Examine

1. Examine the outside—walls, foundations,

'7 with care

underpinning of piazzas, and chimneys, leaders beforesignand water-pipes,
blinds and fastenings. • ing lease.

2. Examine the cellar—floors, walls, and woodwork. Are they damp or dry? Is
there any odor? Are the foundation

l

walls and the floors in good condition? Is it well lighted? Are the bins for
fuel in a convenient place, and are they ample? Is the furnace in good
condition? Are the stairs secure and well lighted?

3. Examine the plumbing. What is the condition of pipes and faucets? Are the
flushing appliances wholly separated from the general-supply tank? Is the
plumbing properly trapped? Is there any odor from it?

4. Examine the walls to see that there are no breaks in the plaster or paper.
Remove drawers to see if the space back of them is plastered; if not, stipulate
that this shall be done. Look at the woodwork, floors, and window-casings,
looking carefully at locks and catches to see that they are in good condition.
Be sure that the house has such an exposure that you get the sun. Better have
fewer conveniences with a sunny house than take a house where you get little or
no sun, even though with the latter you should get finer finish and more
conveniences.

Being satisfied with the general condition of

See that

lease *ne house, the next care is the lease. In this is satisfac- should be
stated the period for which the lease

torigiringre runs, tne rent to ^e pa^, the condition in which the house comes
into your hands, whether landlord or tenant makes the repairs, and, if the
tenant makes any, what they are to be. The water-tax is in some places paid by
the tenant, and in other localities by the landlord; have this stated in the
lease.

. Before having the gas turned on, have the meter meter examined, that you may
not have to pay for gas before gas that your predecessor has consumed. is ^ned
If al l these things are strictly attended to at the proper time, they may save
you a world of annoyance in the future.

For the benefit of those who may build their own homes a few suggestions are
given. There is no intention of having these suggestions take the place of an
architect; but it is hoped that they will be a help to the would-be builder, in
seeing more clearly than he otherwise would what are the essential and what the
secondary considerations in the foundation and structure of a house.

SIZE AND STYLE OF THE HOUSE

In planning a building, its special uses must be considered. The house intended
for a home should be made as convenient, sanitary, and attractive as possible.
The style of the house depends upon the location. The 0f location house built
in the city or suburbs would, of course, upon style be quite different from
that built in the open coun- house, try. The amount of money one is able to
devote to the building of the home must largely decide questions of size,
architecture, etc.

The simpler the style of architecture, if the lines are good, the more pleasing
the effect will be.

Sleeping-rooms should never be planned on the first floor.

Even in the smallest and cheapest houses there should invariably be a chamber,
or open space, between the roof and the story below it. Rooms with no
intermediate space between them and the roof are apt to be very much like ovens
in the hot weather of summer.

Small houses built with low, broken roof-lines are picturesque, but the
sleeping-rooms are not likely to be comfortable. Roofs built in such a style,
besides being more expensive at the start, are more apt to leak than the
plainer ones.

A house built with thick walls will be cool in summer and warm in winter. Aof
thick?6

Every human being is entitled to some space walls, where he can have absolute
privacy for a few hours each day. Houses should be planned to give each person
a separate sleeping-room. It is better to have fewer parlors and more bedrooms.

The finish of the walls, ceilings, floors, and all waUsumd woodwork in the
house should be as simple as woodwork, possible; then there will be fewer
places for dust to lodge and less chance for disease-germs to develop, the
expense of building will be lessened, and the work of the housekeeper
simplified.

THE SKELETON AND CIRCULATORY SYSTEM OF THE HOUSE

A modern house might be likened to an animal organism, the framework being the
skeleton, and the plumbing, flues, heating-pipes, etc., being the circulatory
system.

If this part of the house is carefully outlined before any work is done, it
will save much time, labor, and expense in the construction of the building.
What is of tanceofout- greater consequence, every pipe, flue, and

lining wire will be placed in the right position and will "'system.17 ^e
surrounded and supported by the proper material. There will be no tearing out
of masonry here, or cutting of floors and walls there—a process of remedying
mistakes that often means that heating-pipes are placed in too close contact to
woodwork, and that the spaces around plumbing are not properly finished.

When there is a clear mental picture of the completed house, it will be
possible to dissect it and leave bare the skeleton and circulatory system. Two
sets of plans should then be made, one for the framework, piping, and wiring,
and the other for the completed building.

Having decided upon the whole amount of tiveoost^f money to be expended upon
the house, allow a foundation, generous portion for the foundation, frame, chim
^etef18' nevs, plumbing, heating, and ventilating. Do this even if the finish
must be very plain in consequence. No beauty of finish will compensate for a
poor foundation, shaky frame, and unsanitary plumbing and heating arrangements.

Make the skeleton plan somewhat in this style:

IMaterial.
Depth below the ground.
Height above the ground.
Breadth
Openings for windows, doors, etc.
Ventilating-pipes, cold-air box, etc.

/Bottom, subsoil, drain, kind of floor.
[ Connections with gas-pipes.
""water-pipes.

Cellar

"sewer-pipes.

Cold room.
Fuel-bins.
Furnace.

Closet for preserves, etc.
Laundry, water-closet (if there is one).
Foundation for chimneys.

Chimneys—openings.
Position for pipes from furnace or other

heating appliances.
Position for water-pipes.

""waste- or soil-pipes. ""ventilators. ""bell-wires. ""windows. ""doors.
""stairs. ""closets. Follow this plan for the other floors.

First floor

THE SITUATION AND FOUNDATION OF THE HOUSE

When deciding to build a house, the first consideration should be its situation
with respect to the influence on the health of the family.

The second consideration may be the character of the neighborhood, and
convenience to business and other interests and pleasures.

Light, sunshine, pure air, and dryness are the most important factors in
maintaining the healthful condition of the house, and they should be supplied
in abundance.

Dampness, coming from the soil under or sur"heaUh*0 rounding the house, is a
source of danger, giving from soil, rise to consumption, rheumatism, malaria,
and kindred maladies.

The nature of the soil on which a house is built is a most important question.
The purest soil consists almost wholly of mineral matter intermixed with air
and water.

Vegetable matter and animal matter are freC°whichnS Quen% mingled with the
soil. Warmth and moisi for- ture produce decomposition in animal and vege

mationof taDie substances, and during the process of de

XIOXIOUS . . . • rt» rrn

gases. composition noxious gases are given off. These gases circulate through
the porous earth, and when warmed rise, and, mingling with the air, are taken
into the system with every breath we draw.

These poisonous gases are diluted with pure air, and therefore work so slowly
in the system that we do not realize the damage that is being done until
illness develops. Even then we are ready to attribute the cause to anything
rather than to the dampness and poisonous gases that come from cellars, drains,
cesspools, swampy land, and decaying animal and vegetable substances in and
about our habitations.

If the earth under the house is damp and filled with noxious gases, they will
naturally rise and permeate the whole house, floors, doors, and walls being no
of cellars! protection against them.

All cellars built on clay soil should be drained. The best method of doing this
is to dig a trench, slanted slightly, in which earthen pipes, properly joined,
should be laid. These pipes must be covered with at least two feet of clay,
well packed.

The floor of the cellar should be constructed with the utmost care. No matter
what the soil under the floor may be, there is always danger from the gases
which will circulate through it. The covering of the ofceUa" floor should be of
some substance that will effectually obstruct the passage of the gases rising
from the subsoil.

Many of the best authorities on sanitary questions are of the opinion that a
thick bed of clay, well packed, is the very best material for a cellar floor.
The one objection to this is that the clay, adhering to the shoes of every one
who walks over it, is likely to be carried into other parts of the house. For
this reason it is well to have the clay floor covered with a layer of cement.

With the subdrain and the clay floor under the cement, the cellar should be dry
and sweet, and, as a consequence, the whole house will be in a good sanitary
condition.

THE FOUNDATION-WALLS

Next in importance to the soil on which the house is built, and the drainage,
come the foundation-walls of the house. They should be so built that there will
be no danger of settling because of the instability of the ground. The
foundation itself must be constructed in such a manner that there may be no
possibility of dampness being drawn into the walls. The subdrain already
described will take away the greater part of the moisture from thefoundfthe
soil. tion for

A deep, broad trench should be dug for the cellar walls. The bottom of this
should be packed with a thick bed of clay, as was suggested in making the
cellar floor. Over this should be put a layer of coarse broken stone, the
spaces between the fragments being filled with crushed stone. The whole surface
should be made even, and finally covered with mortar and cement. This
foundation will give a solid support for the walls of the cellar.

All cellar walls should be thick. This is essential for the proper support of
the house, and, in addition, keeps out heat in summer and frost in winter. In
building the cellar walls, every precaution should be taken to make them
impervious to moisture.

lighting height of the walls above the ground is

and venti- important. They should extend a sufficient dis1 cellar* tance aDOVe
ground to admit of windows at least two and a half feet high. This will insure
the thorough lighting and ventilation of the cellar, and the raising of the
first floor at least three feet from the ground.

(note.—In some parts of the country, as in a number of the Southern States, for
instance, the land is so low that cellars are out of the question. In such
cases the foundation-timbers of the house rest upon brick or stone piers. The
supports are far enough apart to allow thorough ventilation under the house.)

There should be cellar windows on all sides of

sunshine if *ne nouse, ^ *ne house is detached. If it is in a possible, block,
of course these windows are limited to two sides only. Piazzas should not be
placed in such a position as to exclude all sun from the cellar.

The more smoothly and completely the walls and ceilings of the cellar are
finished, the easier they will be to keep clean. The ceilings should be lathed
and plastered.

The uses to which the cellar is put depend upon cellar! locality in which one
lives and the manner of

living. In town houses the fuel is usually kept here. In many country houses
all the fuel, except the furnace coal, is kept in sheds on the ground floor.

When the fuel is kept in the cellar, it should be stored in bins placed as near
as possible to the point of consumption. For example, the furnace coal should
be as near as possible to the furnace, and the range and grate coal near the
stairs. Bins should be large enough to contain the full yearly supply of coal,
and they should *bi^fcr be dry and well lighted. fuel.

Every cellar in which there is a furnace should have a cold room partitioned
off from the main room.

A good plan for the cold room is as follows: Take one corner of the cellar in
which there is a window (two windows would be still better); a northeast or
northwest corner is most desirable for this room. Inclose Moul^ a square with
walls of masonry, leaving a generous opening for the door and a small space for
a window which may be opened and closed at will. Divide this room into two
parts, using well-joined boards or masonry for the wall, and again leaving
generous space for a door. In any case, have strong supports of some kind on
which broad slate shelves may rest. If the walls are of masonry, narrow ledges
of stone or brick may be arranged to project from them. If wood has been used,
broad, smooth, wooden cleats may be fastened to the walls. In the inner room a
strong piece of joisting should be fastened firmly across the room and about
two feet from the ceiling. Several large meat-hooks may be driven into this
joist, on which may be hung joints of meat, hams, poultry, etc. This inner room
may be used for storing meats, fish, fruits, vegetables, and all foods that
have an odor.

In the outer cold room milk, butter, and inodorous foods may be kept. These
cold rooms should be placed as near as possible to the cellar stairs; if the
whole length of the cellar must be traversed to get to them, they will not be
used as freely as they should.

The windows of these rooms should be supplied with screens of thin cheese-cloth
to keep out all particles of dust; these would be in addition to the coarse-
and fine-wire

screens with which all the cellar windows should be protected against thieves,
flies, and small animals.

Each room should have, besides the windows, a small opening through the outer
wall, screened with fine wire, and covered with fine cheese-cloth. This will
insure ventilation in cold weather when the win. The rooms

[graphic]

Fig. I.

A. first room; B, inner room; C, door into cellar; D, door connecting the two
rooms; S. S, S, windows; E, joist with meat-hooks; F, table; G, shelves.

dows are closed, doors of both should be wide enough to admit a large barrel
with ease.

A CLOSET FOR PRESERVES AND SIMILAR SUPPLIES

Another useful contrivance in the furnace-heated house is a closet for storing
preserves and other articles that should not be kept in a hot cellar, nor yet
in a room where there is danger of freezing.

This closet may be built of wood and placed in any part of the cellar. It
should be well made, and fitted with broad, smooth shelves that may be cleaned
with ease.

GENERAL PLAN OP THE HOUSE

A skeleton somewhat like the following one will save changes, expense, and
annoyance: 1. Cost.

Outlineof 2. Area of first floor.

needed in 3. Rooms and closets on first floor.

the house. 4. Rooms and closets on second floor.

5. Number of attic rooms, if any, and their arrangement and finish.

6. Amount of plumbing, and its location.

7. Number of chimneys, and their location.

8. Number of open fireplaces.

9. Plan for stairs. (They should be broad and easy, and the back stairs should
be free from turns.)

10. Arrangement of the rooms on all the floors. (This

should be planned so that those used most shall „

Rooms,

have the best exposure to the sun. Halls should

be arranged so that they may not be simply passageways, but

healthful and cheerful meeting-places.)

11. Location of windows, doors, and closets. (These should be planned, after
the location of the rooms is fixed, so that they may give the greatest amount
of

light, sunshine, and air.) doorfcaad Doors and closets should be so placed that
they closets.

will break up the wall-space as little as possible. Ample space should be
allowed in bedrooms for bed,

dressing-case, and large wash-stand—for it is to be hoped

that in our sanitary house there will be no set basins in the

sleeping-rooms.

Plan to have all the rooms and the hall on the lower floor

connect.

The library should be well lighted and have ample wallspace for bookcases. It
is a good arrangement to have a window on one side of the room above j^iiiJary,
the low bookcases, the greatest length of this window extending horizontally.
The glass should be of a soft, warm color. The light coming through glass
tinted a

deep yellow is almost like sunlight, very much

j Comer softened. cioset and

The dining-room should be one of the most sideboard

cheerful rooms in the house. In building, the ^j^^om!

cost of putting in corner closets and a simple

sideboard will not be great, if one is satisfied with plain,

substantial work. The arrangement of bits of china and glass in these will be
sufficient decoration. Of course, if one is building a handsome house, and has
the means to spend on fine carvings, the dining-room and library are the rooms
where such work is appropriate and satisfactory. A bay-window in the
dining-room will admit of a few plants— the most attractive thing one can have
in this room.

Let the vestibule and entrance-hall be as spacious as your means will permit.
The hall gives character to the house.

Nothing in make-up and finish of any other part Vestibule of the house can
atone for a cramped and badly entrance- lighted hall. Somewhere on the first
floor there hail. should be a closet for wraps, umbrellas, overshoes,

etc. With such a place for putting away the outdoor garments, it is possible to
make the hall a pleasant reception-room.

The staircase, wherever placed, should be broad and easy to mount, with at
least two wide landings to break its

length. The back staircase should be built for backed3 its proper use—the
passing up and down for the front. performance of the regular work of the
house,

and for carrying furniture, baggage, etc., from one floor to another. For these
purposes the stairs should be straight, of an easy incline, and well lighted.
As a rule the reverse is the case.

THE KITCHEN AND PANTRIES

Last, but not least, plan carefully for the kitchen and pantries. The kitchen
should be large enough to be comfortable as to temperature and ventilation.
Arrange it so that nearly all the work of cooking, dish-washing, etc., may be
done within an area of one hundred square feet. A rough plan is given here of
kitchen, pantries, back hall, and stairs, that may be suggestive of the method
of connecting the different points of work closely and systematically. (See

[ocr errors]

Fig. No. 2.) The kitchen should not be so large as to make the work of keeping
it clean a burden, nor so small that it cannot be well ventilated and kept
fairly cool.

If the plan given is followed, all the work of cooking, serving, and
dish-washing can be confined to a small portion of the kitchen. At the same
time the room is sufficiently large to insure a comfortable atmosphere, and
there will always be a clear, orderly space, which will be a comfort and
convenience when extra work is to be done.

The woodwork in the kitchen should be very plain and it should be finished in
oil. There should be no grooves to hold dust or moisture. The walls may be
painted, or they may be covered with one of the papers that can• be wash-1

[ocr errors]
[table]
[ocr errors]

ed.When one can afford it,

tiling IS H, kitchen; A, B, china-closet and pantry; C, cold pantry; D, back
hall; E, F, ,, closets for cleaning-appliances and out-door garments; I,
gas-range; J, coal-range;

tll6 mOSu K, sink; L, draining-board; M, table; N, dresser; O, table; P, chest
of drawers with shelf above for clock, etc.; Q, back stairs; R, cellar stairs;
S, S, S, S, S, windows; U, S3itisf 3iC~ 'nto front hall; V, door into back
hall.

tory finish for the lower part of the walls, say for a space

of from four to six feet. This is an expensive finish at the

beginning; but when it is remembered that the

first cost is the only outlay, and that the tiles will K^iB'0r

last as long as the house stands, it will be seen

that they are not an extravagant investment. The blue-andwhite glazed Dutch
tiles are especially adapted for a kitchen. Yellow tiles will give a warm tone,
and when the kitchen is on the north side, or not well lighted, as is the case
in many houses in city blocks, this color is advisable.

The floors of kitchens, pantries, back halls, and stairs should be of hard
wood, finished in oil, or stained Floors. and varnished. Such floors are easy
to keep clean, and there is no temptation to water-soak them.

The kitchen windows should be large, and should lower from the top with ease.
The screens should be in ows. made t0 cover the entire window. There ought to
be a flue in the chimney to carry off gases and odors.

A generous sink and ample table-room save much breakage and lighten the labor
in the kitchen. The sink should be broad, and the water-faucets should be set
well up and back. From my own observation, it seems as if the greater part of
the breaking and nicking of dishes is done by striking the articles against the
waterfaucets. In a narrow sink the breakage is much oftishM? greater than in a
broad one. When it is possible to avoid it, the kitchen sink should not be made
of wood. Those made of soapstone, and other kinds of stone, are excellent. Iron
sinks are good, except that they rust easily. If wooden sinks must be used,
they should be lined with zinc or some other metallic substance. The
porcelain-lined sinks are sanitary and easily cared for. The sink should never
be inclosed. The waste pipe should be covered with a fairly fine strainer,
which should be kept screwed securely in place.

. . Every sink should have at one end a long

shaves." draining-shelf. This shelf should be well grooved and inclined
slightly toward the sink. If there is space to allow it, have a broad shelf or
table at the other end. A low movable table may be kept under this. In planning
the kitchen, leave space for a gas-stove near

the range. A small opening should be made in the chimney for connecting the
gas-stove with a pipe which carries off the products of combustion.

PANTRIES

A great economy of time, strength, and materials is gained by having ample and
well-arranged pantries. To prevent sounds and odors reaching the diningroom
from the kitchen, the communication be- Pantries

and china

tween these two rooms should be through several closets, doors. The plan of
pantry and china-closet given below will be found to combine convenience for
work and protection against odors and sounds.

Opening from the dining-room is the china-closet. Here are kept the fine china
and glass, the tableware and silver in daily use, and any table appliances one
may wish to have convenient to the dining-room. This pantry is lighted and
aired by a small window.

Connecting this pantry with the kitchen, and opening from it, is another
pantry, which is a little larger than the first, which contains drawers,
closets, and shelves for dishes and such supplies as crackers, sugar, vinegar,
oil, and salt, which one likes to have near the dining-room. Here the tableware
that must be taken into the kitchen may be kept.

[graphic]

Fig. 3

A, china-closet; B, pantry; C, door into kitchen; D, door between china-closet
and pantry; E, door into dining-room; F, sink; G, table with shelves above; H,
broad shelves with closets above and below; I, draining-board; J, J, drawers
with closets above; K; broad shelves with closets above and below; L, drawers
with shelves above; M, broad shelf with closets below and shelves above; N,
drawers with closets above; S, S, windows.

[graphic]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]

A sink with hot and cold water is provided for the care of the finest
tableware, and there is a large stationary table which will be found
indispensable in the table service, dishwashing, and arrangement of cold
dishes. This room is lighted and ventilated by a window.

At the other side of the kitchen is a cold pantry (C), where the groceries and
cooked food may be stored. A plan of this is given below. A closet where the
brooms, brushes, and all appliances for cleaning the house may be kept is a
necessity.

This closet should have one or two broad shelves on which to place the articles
used in cleaning, and the cloths for covering furniture and pictures when
sweeping, etc. There should be two rows of hooks, one above the other, on which
to hang brushes, brooms, etc. (E) Figure -5 shows the arrangement of such a
closet. Next it is shown another closet (F), where wraps for every-day use,
overshoes, umbrellas, etc., may be kept.

A dresser is almost a necessity in the kitchen. It is certainly a most
convenient and pleasant arrangement, and well merits its name "dresser," for it
is an adornment as well as a most useful piece of furniture.

[graphic]
[ocr errors]

The dresser should be made of the same kind of wood as that in which the
kitchen is finished. It should be long enough to divide into several parts. The
following plan may be modified to suit varying tastes and needs. The height of
the one suggested in the diagram is about eight feet; length, six feet; depth
of bottom closet, twenty inches; depth of upper closet, fourteen inches.

Between the upper and lower closets have two drawers, and sliding shelves
between the drawers and broad shelf. A is the sliding shelf, B the broad shelf,
C the drawer.

The shelves in the upper closet should be grooved, so that dishes and plates
may be stood on end upon them. Close the closet with sliding glass doors.

If the kitchen is so arranged that there is no place for such a dresser, one
may have, at least, a corner cupboard. Cut No. 7 gives a plan for another kind
of dresser, which supplies more close cupboards and drawers.

MATERIALS USED IN BUILDING

Naturally, the most durable building-materials are stone and brick, but owing
to the expense of these materials and the cost of handling them, wood is
generally used for Bricks.

[graphic]

houses of moderate price built in suburbs and country places.

Whatever the material employed, it should be of such quality and treated in
such a manner as to prevent the walls from absorbing or retaining dampness.
Bricks absorb moisture readily. This is particularly true of a poor quality of
brick. Therefore, when bricks are used for the outer walls of a house, only
those of the best grade should be employed, and the finished walls should be

made impervious to moisture by a coat of good paint.

If wood is the material used in the structure, it should be thoroughly seasoned
(see "Woods") and free from sapwood. Every piece that is exposed to wind and
rain should be protected by paint, oil, or some wood preservative. In the
interior of the house all the wood finish should be protected by varnish, oil,
wax, or paint. Wood that is used on the outside of the house should be put on
so that water cannot lodge in or under it. It often happens that rain- and
snow-water work their way oMecay under shingles and clapboards, the flooring of
in wood, piazzas or steps, and in a short time cause the wood to decay. This
decay is contagious, and in time large patches of roof, flooring, or joists are
destroyed. The best material and good workmanship will almost insure against
this kind of loss and annoyance.

[graphic]

Any woodwork that comes near the soil, such as steps, piazzas, etc., should be
constructed in such a way that thorough ventilation between the woodwork and
the earth is assured.

The laying and finish of the floors of the house is particularly important. The
wood for this purpose should be perfectly seasoned, and the boards so The
laying well matched that neither dust nor water can finishing pass through the
joinings. They should be of floors, wholly of rift wood, if quartered wood is
not used (I am not speaking now of inlaid or parquetry floors).

All floors that are not to be covered with carpets or matting should be
finished in such a manner that they will be pleasant to look upon and easy to
care for. (See "Woods," "Rift," and "Slash.")

A badly finished floor is a continual source of annoyance, while, on the other
hand, the plainest floor of thoroughly seasoned and matched boards, properly
cared for and well finished, will be a joy forever. ^"ow-*

Doors and window-sashes should be substantially and carefully made, and of the
best-seasoned wood.

The leaders and water-pipes used on the outside of the house should, in cold
climates, be made so that they will not be injured readily by ice. Corrugated
pipes, when water freezes in them, do not burst as J^^x easily as smooth ones.
pipes.

As to the painting, it should be borne in mind that durability is attained in
proportion to the amount of lead used. For this reason white, red, and drab
paints are the best, as a great deal of lead may be employed in mixing them.
The surface should be e^eriof perfectly dry before paint is applied. If the
paint of house, is laid on a damp surface, it will blister and come off in
flakes. The most suitable time for painting the out

side of a house is in the autumn, when the weather is clear and cold.

If the finish of the woodwork of the interior of the house is in the natural
wood, it should, when possible, be rubbed smooth with sandpaper before being
oiled or varFinishing nished. If it is varnished, several coats should

of interior , .

woodwork, be applied, each coat being rubbed down. All of these details add to
the first expense; but they will pay in the end, because of the gain in beauty
and durability.

The wood used in all kinds of closets should be free from pitch, and, if
painted or varnished, so well done that there shall be no danger of articles
sticking to it. Never oil the woodwork in closets.

THE INTERIOR FINISH OP THE HOUSE

Interior finish should har

So much depends upon the location, the style of house, furnishing, and mode of
living, that a few suggestions are all that can be given on this subject.

The interior finish of the house should be in harmony with the location, style,
and furnishing. If the house is exposed to strong light and sunshine, the
finish should be soft in tone, and free from strong or pronounced colors. On
the other hand, in a city block the light and sunshine do not come into all
parts of the house either abundantly or strongly. In such a house the finish
should be of a kind that will reflect warmth and light, not absorb it. For
somber, sunless rooms and halls the floors, walls, ceilings, and woodwork
should be as light and warm in tone as possible. Yellow tones light up a room
and give a sense of warmth. Red gives a sense of warmth, but does not brighten
a room as yellow does. All shades of green are cold, but

with location, etc.

Lightness

and warmth of color.

the lighter they are the cooler the effect will he. Blue is also cold, but less
so than green. Browns are somewhat neutral, but give an impression of warmth
rather than cold. Olive greens in which the yellow predominates are soft, warm,
and restful colors, which may be used in any light or climate.

The general tone in the finish of rooms that have a northern exposure, or that
are not well lighted, should be either in dull reds or yellows.

In finishing the walls of a room, it should always be remembered that they are
to serve as a background for pictures, furniture, and hangings. For this reason
they should be made as soft and neutral as possible. Large and set designs, and
pronounced colors, are diffi- a back

cult things to deal with in furnishing a room, ground for

-icturer etc.

Of course the most sanitary finish is the calci- Plctures,

mined or painted walls, but as a rule they are cold and hard. A paper in plain
color and soft tints never offends or tires the eyes. Cartridge-papers are very
satisfactory on this account.

The back of very cheap paper will sometimes make a good wall-covering. This is
particularly true when the back is a soft ecru or buff.

A plain finish is especially desirable for the walls of halls, parlors,
libraries, and dining-rooms. Light papers with dainty colorings and designs are
appropriate for bedrooms. Papers with set figures or geometrical designs should
not be used on the walls of a sleeping- papers. room. If one should happen to
be ill for any length of time in such a room, these designs would be a
continual torture to the eye. The background of a paper used in a sleeping-room
should be of a soft, delicate shade of cream,—or gray is good,—and over this
might be running vines, or flowers either single, clustered, or festooned; a
frieze of sedgy grass, flags, etc., would be a pleasing finish; and, ill or
well, one would rarely tire or be annoyed by the designs or tones in such a
wall-covering.

If the house is heated by steam or hot water, Flaeingof the pipes and radiators
that are brought into a pipes'and room should be made as inconspicuous as
possible, radiators. They should be placed where they will not take up too much
wall-space. Sometimes the most desirable part of a room is spoiled by these
ugly pipes.

THE CHIMNEY AND FURNACE-PIPES

The first considerations in building a chimney should be safety and the
efficiency of the draft.

In the accounts of the burning of dwelling-houses, the cause given for the
origin of the fire, in a great majority of cases, is a defective flue. This
applies to all classes of houses, from the cheapest to the most costly.
Certainly in this day materials and workmanship ought to be of so high an order
that it would be almost an impossibility to have fires from such a cause.

The draft depends, to some extent, upon location. When Hei lit of prac^caDle,
tne chimney should be carried high chimney, enough for the top to be free from
all obstruction.

A chimney whose top is overshadowed on one or more sides by high walls will not
draw when the wind is in certain directions.

In building fireplaces, every precaution should be taken to preclude all danger
of the woodwork taking fire. This may be accomplished by surrounding them with
thick walls of brick or other masonry. Deep fireplaces do not heat a room as
well as shallow ones, except at the explaces, pense of a great deal of fuel.
Unless one lives in the country, where wood is cheap, the fireplace should not
be very large. The back should slant forward as it rises; this tends to throw
the heat into the room. Every fireplace should be provided with a damper that
may be opened or closed at will. The best finish for the interior is
fire-brick. A facing and hearth of glazed tiles is desirable, as they are clean
and reflect the heat.

Hot-air pipes, when passing through walls or floors, should be several inches
from the woodwork. If such openings can be plastered, or the pipes wrapped SJ^1
^fe" in asbestos, the danger of fire from this cause will be greatly
diminished. Use every precaution here.

THE PLUMBING

The plumbing of the house should be of the best quality, as simple as possible
in construction, and there should be no more of it than is actually necessary
for the comfort and convenience of the family. Stationary basins with hot and
cold water in the bedrooms, and bath-rooms connected with sleeping-rooms,
lighten the labor of Bt^^ry those doing the work of the household, and they are
a great luxury; but they are dangerous things to have in or next to
sleeping-rooms. It is better to have bathrooms as far away from sleeping-rooms
as possible, and to put generous, portable wash-stands and bowls in the
sleepingrooms.

There should be the least possible horizontal piping laid in the house. Hence,
bath-rooms, closets, etc., should be placed, when practicable, in locations on
the different floors that are relatively the same. All HpTM^al plumbing should
be in sight, and the traps so placed that they may be opened and examined with
ease.

The trapping is one of the most important constructions in plumbing, and only
traps of the simplest form should be used. A trap is a U-shaped bend in a use?
pipe. It must always contain a sufficient quantity of water to extend an inch
or more above the bend. This Fig. (

[graphic]
[graphic]

A, B, common traps; C, D, modifications of A and B—screwcaps, as shown at a, 
being added for cleaning out the traps; E, F, G, ventilating-traps with
air-pipes at b leading to the exterior of a building.

water is termed the seal, and its office is to prevent the escape of sewer-gas
from the pipe into the room. There

are many kinds of m^^m- r>HL sewer-gas traps, but '^-[Uj^ -£-n ah they all aim
at the ^ \zJ same result — the

water-seal.

The soil-pipe must be thoroughly ventilated, and the ventilating-pipe should be
carried well up above the roof, beyond all possible chance of foul air being
drawn into the house through the windows.

On the size of the soil-pipe depends much of its efficiency. It should never be
so large that it cannot be thoroughly flushed—that is, filled with water, so
that every part of it is cleansed as the water flows through. A four-inch pipe
is the size generally used; but if the flow of water is not abundant, a smaller
pipe would be better. The overflow-pipes of the bowls and bath-tubs of
old-style plumbing

°Vp^e°sW' are most difficult t0 flush or disinfect. This kind of overflow-pipe
is still used in cheap plumbing, but the most advanced plumbers now have much
better arrangements, the stand-pipe for bath-tubs being one of the simplest and
best. Naturally, every year there are new appliances, or improvements on old
forms, and builders should make every effort to get those that are best from
the sanitary point of view.

Each water-closet should be provided with a separate flushing-tank which will
hold at least three gallons of water. The flushing-pipe of the water-closet
should never have direct communication with the main tank. When this
communication exists there is

Flushing of pipes

in waterclosets.

always danger of contaminating the water supplying boiler, bowls, baths, etc.

When there is but one bath-room in the house, there should be a water-closet on
the first or second floor*. It is desirable to have a bath-room for the
servants, if practicable.

A small room on the first floor with bowl and water-closet will be found a
great convenience.

The placing of the pipes should be studied with great care. When it can be
avoided they should not be put on the north side of the house. A plan of Care
in the plumbing should be kept in every house, and P1*0."* »f the housekeeper
should make herself familiar pipe8, with its details.

The universal motto in regard to plumbing should be: The best, the simplest,
and the least possible.

I want here to mention two books which would prove of great value to the
householder, if studied with care. They are both so clearly and simply written
that any amateur can understand them. One is "How to station. Drain a House,"
by George E. Waring, Jr., and the other is " Home Sanitation," edited by Ellen
H. Richards and Marion Talbot.

COUNTRY HOUSES—DRAINAGE AND EARTH-CLOSETS

In communities where there are no water or sewerage systems, the problem of the
disposal of the sewage is a serious one; but it should not be neglected or
ignored, as is often the case. Owing to the habit, prevalent in many country
places, of throwing all the slop-water of the household upon the ground near
the dwelling itself, poisonous gases are constantly being diffused, and the
poison also filters through the earth from these points of deposit into the
wells. I suppose it is no exaggeration to say that one half of the people
living in country places suffer from impaired health on this account.

Earth has great purifying power. The dirtiest water, after filtering through a
large area of earth, Eptuiaer * becomes comparatively pure. It takes time, how*
ever, to accomplish this. All dirty water should be carried as far as possible
from the house. When there is no other means of disposing of it than on the
surface of the ground, drains "tion of°" should be constructed of well-joined
tiles, and drain for laid in a trench that has a slight downward incline. The
trench should be filled in with clay. The outlet of this drain may be on a
piece of land distant from the house at least two hundred feet. Every particle
of liquid refuse must go into this drain. When it is not possible to have a
water-closet, an earthcloset should be constructed, with care to have dosets.
as samtary as such things can be made. Each member of the household should be
taught how to use the earth, and the necessity of keeping the earthcloset dry.

This closet should be connected with the house only by a covered passage. It
should be well lighted and ventilated. The vault must be shallow, with a bottom
of well-packed clay. The board that shuts in the vault must be so arranged that
it can be easily removed, and it should have two openings cut in it for
ventilation.

The contents of the vault must be kept covered with fine, dry earth. If, the
earth is mixed with powdered charcoal, so much the better. A box of this
mixture, and a small shovel, should be kept in the closet. The vault will have
to be cleaned frequently. Chloride of lime, or quicklime, might be scattered in
the vault occasionally. No liquid should ever be poured into the closet. The
secret of keeping it in a sanitary condition consists in keeping it dry, and
sprinkling in dry earth every time it is used.

CHAPTER II

THE WATER-SUPPLY

Situation and depth of well or spring. Methods of softening and purifying
water. Tests for impurities in water.

Do any of us ever realize how dependent we are on water for life and health?

Water is the carrier of food throughout the whole system. Upon its purity life
and health depend; if, on the contrary, it is impure, it carries with it
disease, p?fe and often death. necessity.

It is the duty of every head of a family to see to it that the household is
furnished with as pure water as possible.

If the water is supplied to a town by a corporation, the chances are that it is
as pure as it is possible to get within a reasonable distance. The great danger
is from wells, either in town or country, or from bodies of water into which
sewage flows.

The general criterion of pure water is that which is "free from color, taste,
or smell, and is cool, soft, standard bright, well aerated, and entirely free
from de- 0f purity, posit."

This standard is correct as far as it goes, but the condition it describes does
not always indicate perfectly pure water. Water may have all these
characteristics and yet

27

hold in solution poisons from decaying organic substances. Strictly speaking,
no water is pure, except distilled water.

Our supply of water comes from rivers, lakes, springs, and wells. These sources
are fed by the rain and melting snows. Portions of these rain- and snow-waters
wateMu°f ^ow directly from the surface of the earth into

ply. rivers, lakes, springs, etc. Other portions filter through the soil.

That which flows over the soil carries with it portions of the loose matter
which it encounters in its rush to stream or pond. The water that sinks into
the soil filters until it reaches well, spring, or subterranean stream.

In its passage through the soil it may, and usually does, undergo many changes,
all depending on what it finds in its travels.

One of the characteristics of water is its solvent power. The purer and softer
it is, the greater this power. In percolating through the soil it dissolves
many sub

The solvent stanceg it finds there, and absorbs some of them, power of

water. On the other hand, clean soil—that is to say, soil free from any
decaying organic substance, either animal or vegetable—has the power of
purifying water, provided the bed of earth through which it percolates is thick
enough. The greatest danger of poison in water comes from the presence of
decaying organic matter. The sources P°easUyn of tj"s pollution are many; but
the most deadly, prevented, and it may be said the most common, are those which
might be prevented. When the water-supply comes from wells or springs near a
habitation, there is always a possibility of pollution, unless the surrounding
soil is guarded with greatest care. All refuse, dry or liquid, from houses,
barns, and outhouses, if left where it can soak into the soil, will, if the
spring or well is near enough, find its way into the water. This almost
invariably means disease, and very often death.

It would fill the souls of many good men and women with

horror if they were told that they are slowly, but surely,

poisoning their families and themselves with the filth which

they throw upon the earth near what should be the sources

of the purest physical life. The pile of manure

but a few yards away from the well, the slop- Soiirces.of

J J r organic

water thrown on the ground near the well, the pollution.

badly constructed drain that allows a portion of

the sewage to leak into the earth and in this way reach the

water in the well—each of these carries its share of polluting

matter. The heaps of decaying matter found about many

houses are another source of contamination. It will be seen,

then, that to keep the earth clean in the vicinity of the

water-supply is of the greatest importance.

Water drawn from marshy lands will always contain decaying vegetable matter,
and it should not be used for drinking purposes.

Inorganic matter is also dissolved and taken up by water, which invariably
contains traces of the inorganic substances over which it flows. Carbonate of
lime (chalk) and sulphate of lime (gypsum) are the most common and abundant
minerals found in water. It is the presence ^°Jj^^1 of these substances which
gives us what we call water, "hard" water. Iron, phosphates, etc., are also
found in water, according to the locality over which it flows. Air and
carbonic-acid gas are always constituents of pure water.

SITUATION AND DEPTH OP WELL OR SPRING

From what has been said, there can be no doubt as to the importance of the
location of the well or spring from which the house obtains its supply of
water. It is Situation an imperative necessity that the well should be so of^^
Sg8nd placed that there is not a shade of a chance of pollution.

The depth of the well is very important. A shallow well

is always unsafe, because surface-water, before it has sunk

through enough earth for purification, will filter

Depth of int;0 ft. The walls of a well should be cemented Wgu or

spring, so as to prevent surface-water from soaking

through them. As soft water has the power of dissolving lead in small
quantities, this metal should not be used for water-pipes when it 'be ^avoided.
Water which has stood Sa^pipes! m the pipes for any length of time should never
be used for drinking purposes or in the preparation of food. It should be
allowed to run long enough to empty the pipe before any is collected for use.
There are several kinds of impurities:

1. That which comes from organic substances, be it vegetable or animal.

2. Inorganic matter, such as lime, iron, lead, etc.

3. Water has considerable solvent powers, and as it flows over rocks and
through beds of different kinds of soil it dissolves both inorganic and organic
substances.

The purest known natural waters contain some foreign substances.

METHODS OF SOFTENING AND PURIFYING WATER

There are several methods of purifying water when it holds in solution or
susperisioft so much foreign matter as to make it unhealthy or difficult to use
for doMethods of mestic purposes.

purifying

water. 1. One of the simplest and most commonly employed methods is to boil the
water. This process practically kills all the organic life contained in the
water; it also softens the water, if the hardness be temporary.

2. Filtering the water purifies to some extent—that is, all substances held in
suspension are filtered out; but it must be remembered that any substance held
in solution passes through, so it is not possible to make hard water soft by
filtration.

All natural waters have dissolved in them carbon dioxid, oxygen, and nitrogen.
Water absorbs about its own volume of carbon dioxid, about one ^^JJJjJT
twenty-fifth of its own volume of oxygen, and dioxid. a much smaller quantity
of nitrogen. These gases give life, sparkle, and a su^gestiojtv.of flavor to
water.

Carbon dioxid has the property of dissolving lime. As the water charged with
this gas flows over the beds of limestone and sulphate of lime (gypsum), it
dissolves particles of the lime which is held in solution by the carbon dioxid,
thus giving to the water the quality we call hardness.

3. There are two kinds of hardness—temporary and permanent.

4. Temporary hardness is due to carbonates. Water flowing over a limestone
district dissolves small portions of the lime which is held in solution by the
carbonic acid in the water. Now, if the carbonic acid be removed or given
something else to work upon, the lime in the water is precipitated. We see this
when we boil water and a white crust is found on the vessel in which it was
boiled. In Paris, a thick coat covers the interior of the vessel in which water
is boiled in a day or two; even the cover of the saucepan will contain a
coating of lime where the steam has condensed.

5. When water is boiled f*.. some time the carbonic-acid gas is driven off, and
there is nothing to hold the lime in solution, so it drops out of the water.
But this gas gives life to water, and by long boiling we lose this, and,
naturally, as a beverage it is flat and unpalatable, and the beverages which we
make from it are not so bright as those made with water which has been freshly
boiled.

If the water is poured several times from one vessel to another, it will
reabsorb some of the gases, and the flavor will be improved.

One of the best methods of removing temporary hardness (that due to the
carbonates) is what is known as Clark,s process. One tenth of lime-water is
added to the teinporary hard water—that is, one gallon of lime-water to
hardness, every ten gallons of hard water. (See "LimeWater.")

Removing When the hardness is permanent it is softened hardness1* addition of
sal-soda. However, enough of

this chemical cannot be used to soften the water employed for cooking purposes,
but it is valuable as an agent for softening the water employed in washing and
cleaning.

When water contains organic matter, anything that will coagulate the albuminous
substance in the water Purifying ^11 tend t0 pUrify it. Alum, oak chips, and
certain lationT kinds of nuts have the property of coagulating albuminous
matter, and the precipitate carries down other impurities.

Water taken from marshy land, ponds, or rivers, in which decaying organic
substances are dissolved, should be purified by the addition of oak chips or
alum. When the water becomes clear it should be filtered or strained. Use about
eight grains of alum to a gallon of water; if the oak chips are used, a handful
to about two gallons of water.

When a filter is not employed in the kitchen, all the water used for drinking
and cooking may be strained through a flannel bag—small bags with
running-strings, which may be fastened on the faucet. They should be changed
every day.

TESTS FOR IMPURITIES IN WATER

Church gives the following simple tests, which may be made in any kitchen, for
impurities in water:

"Boil one quart of the water to be tested ration.0" m a porcelain dish, and
then heat the dry residue hotter and hotter. If the original residue is white
and powdery in appearance, that is, so far, a good sign; but if it is partly
white and partly yellowish or greenish, and especially if there are gum-like
stains around the residue, then, on heating these parts of the residue, we
shall probably see them darken, fuse, and burn away in part, giving out fumes
having a disagreeable smell. If the blackening is considerable, much organic
matter is present; but if the smell is offensive (like burnt feathers), then it
is certain that the organic matter is of animal origin, and is, therefore, more
likely to be unwholesome, or even poisonous."

"If water contains substances derived from the decay of

animal or vegetable matters, such as those in sewage and

manure and the refuse of plants, then it is

found that such a water will destroy the beau- ByPer

xnanganato

tiful purple color of a chemical substance called of potash, permanganate of
potash. The reason for this is as follows: The decaying organic matter of the
water attracts oxygen strongly when it is presented in certain states or forms.
Now, a solution of the above permanganate contains much oxygen just in the
right state to be attracted and removed. By its removal from the permanganate
the composition of that substance is altered and its color destroyed. The more
organic matter in the water, the more permanganate will be decolorized. The
test may be thus applied: Fill a clean white tea-cup with the water to be
tested. Add about sixty drops of weak sulphuric acid; stir with a clean slip of
window-glass. Now pour in enough of a weak solution of permanganate of potash
to render the water a rich rose-color. Cover the cup with a clean glass plate.
Now, if there be much organic matter in the water, the color will go in a few
minutes, and more permanganate may be added, and still lose its color. It must
be recollected, in using this test, that peaty matter and iron salts, which are
not necessarily unwholesome, give the same results." "Nearly fill a clean
tumbler with water, and then add twenty drops of nitric acid, and five of a
solution of nitrate of silver (lunar caustic), or else a small crystal of

that substance. Stir with a clean slip of glass, BacicLnC and *f there is more
than a slight bluish-white

cloudiness, if there is a solid curdy substance found, then there is too much
common salt in the water. It may be said, What harm is there in common salt? We
answer, None in the common salt as such, but only in common salt as evidence of
some kinds of pollution. We will explain. Common salt (chloride of sodium) does
not occur in rain-water or pure well-water, except to the extent of a little
over a grain per gallon. Of course there is more in waters from salt-bearing
rocks and in waters near the sea. But generally,—at all events, in a chalk or
limestone district,—where common salt is found in any quantity exceeding one
and one half grains per gallon, which gives a mere cloudiness with nitrate of
silver, the salt is derived from sewage—in other words, from the salt consumed
in human food and voided chiefly with the urine. If a water be found to contain
both organic matter and common salt, it is probably contaminated by house or
town sewage. If organic matter be abundant, but accompanied by a smaller
quantity of common salt, then the source of pollution is rather the excrement
of farm animals than of man, or it may arise merely from vegetable refuse."

CHAPTER III

FURNISHING

The hall. The dining-room. The library. The living-room. The parlor. The
bedrooms. The kitchen. Kitchen utensils. Tinware. Ironware. Granite-ware.
Woodenware. Earthenware. Stoneware. Miscellaneous. Ventilation.

The furnishing of the house should be within one's means and in harmony with
the structure. It is possible to furnish a home comfortably, and even
elegantly, for the same sum that is often spent in producing the ^j* most
commonplace and uncomfortable results. furnishing. The beginners in
housekeeping should, first of all, decide upon the amount of money they can
afford to spend in furnishing; next they should make a list of the essentials;
then another list of desirable accessories should be made out; finally, they
should agree to buy the essentials first, to have them of as good material and
workmanship as can be afforded, and to select form and colors that will be
simple and quiet rather than elaborate and striking.

It is hardly possible to estimate the influence that the furnishing of a room
has upon the feelings and character of the inmates.

Every article in a room should have a reason for being there. The thing that
supports real weight or pressure should have the appearance of being able to do
so without any strain upon itself or danger to the object supported. A chair or
couch should look strong enough to sustain the weight of any one who sits on
it. A table on which many Every ar- articles are placed, as a five-o,clock
tea-table, for tide of fur- example, should be broad and firm, and should not
shoSd be *=*ve impression 0f being too small or too deladapted to icate for its
burden. On the contrary, the table its special on which the fragile vase of
flowers is placed is all the more appropriate and attractive if it is of a
delicate, airy construction.

Draperies should indicate that they are used to soften the light, replace
doors, or give softness or color to some

Pictures part of the room. Pictures and ornaments are and orna- to give
pleasure to the eye, and they should be of

ments. such a character, and arranged in such a manner, that they-will
accomplish this result.

THE HALL

It is the hall that gives the first impression of the home.

Of course the furnishing of it must depend upon the style

and size of the house and upon the character of

The fur- the room_ Oak is, as a rule, the most satisfacnighing of

the hall, tory wood to use here. If the hall is one of the narrow passageways
so often found in city houses, a hall-stand, composed of seat, mirror, and
umbrella-stand, and having several hooks to hang hats and wraps upon, is the
extent of the furniture that can be allowed.

If the size of the hall will permit, it is best to furnish it as a
reception-room. In that case, a table, chairs, hall-settle or a plain sofa,
mirror, pictures, and, if there is room, a small bookcase, will make a
comfortable and charming room. A fireplace usually includes a mantel-shelf on
which some ornaments may be arranged. A clock is always appropriate in a hall.
The floor, if possible, should be of hard wood, and rugs may be laid on it here
and there.

THE DINING-ROOM

The floor of this room should be of hard wood. The table and chairs must be
well made and of generous size. It is impossible to arrange a narrow table in
an elegant manner, and nothing is more uncomforta- r^^s^"d ble than small,
unsubstantial dining-room chairs. ingB. When the sideboard is built into the
side of the room, the table and chairs will be all the necessary furniture. If
there is no sideboard, and the expense of one cannot be incurred, a
sideboard-table, which may be covered with a pretty cloth, will do to hold the
odd bits of tableware one always wants in the dining-room. A mantelpiece and
one or two cupboards give an opportunity of displaying pretty bits of porcelain
and glass to the best advantage. Nothing one may put in the dining-room will
add such brightness and charm as closets or cabinets, through the glass doors
of which the brilliant glass and china may be seen. Growing plants and pictures
are always a pleasing addition to this room, which should be one of the
pleasantest in the house.

THE LIBRARY

The ideal library is a room in a quiet corner of the house, with bookcases
built around the walls, not too high, so that the titles of the books may be
read by a person standing on the floor. As wall-space is of great library,
value in this room, there should be only one large window. The principal light
should come from windows above the bookcases. The floor should be of polished
wood, and the walls painted or papered in rich, warm colors. An open fireplace,
a library table of generous size, a desk, comfortable chairs, a window-seat, a
couch with pillows, rugs, etc., all should find a place in this room. It will
be made doubly attractive and instructive if there are some classical pictures
and a few casts. The whole atmosphere of a library should suggest thought and
study.

THE LIVING-ROOM

In every house there is one room in particular where the members of the family
assemble in their hours of leisure. This room is known as the living-room or
sitting-room. In many homes it combines parlor or drawing-room, sittingroom,
library, and reception-room. When this is the case it is apt to be an
exceptionally delightful place; in any case, it ought to be the most attractive
room in the house.

Here there should be the best light, the greatest amount of sunshine, the most
pleasing and refining pictures, the easiest chairs, the most cheerful fire, and
books, statutes'" tables, foot-rests, etc. In a room of this kind comfort in
there should be a large center-table, with a good tt room!1* lamp or
drop-light. If the family is large, one or two smaller tables, on which
student-lamps are placed, will be of the greatest comfort. Even if there is a
library, this room must have a bookcase filled with miscellaneous literature.

A closet where newspapers, magazines, games, work, etc., may be kept will be
found a great convenience. If there is no closet, some arrangement should be
made for keeping these things. One so often wants to refer to back numbers of
papers or magazines that these periodicals should be kept in an accessible
place for a certain length of time.

Another convenience in such a room is the box-seat. Any room used as much as
this is sure to be should have a polished floor, and there should be a generous
supply of rugs. All the furnishing should be of the most substantial and
comfortable kind, with nothing too good for constant wear and exposure to light
and sunshine. Anything that has to be protected by scarfs or tidies is out of
place here. Wellmade ratan chairs, cushioned in seat and back, are light,
clean, and comfortable. tial ftrnd

It seems a pity that so many people still cling ture in the to the
rocking-chair. It takes up a great deal of roonf" space, and the rockers are
always in the way, and are continually being pushed against furniture and
baseboards, where they often do much damage. The half-reclining position which
is the inevitable attitude assumed in this chair is not graceful, nor is it
comfortable if one wishes to work or read. Besides, many people become
inexpressibly nervous when they are in the same room with a person who is
constantly rocking. Indeed, it is an absurd sight to see grown people rock as
if they were little children amusing themselves with a toy horse.

The style of chair that, in the end, is the most comfortable, and that
cultivates the best carriage of the body, is one with a broad, deep seat and a
high, almost straight

back. Such a chair will sustain one in an erect The,m°st

comforta

position, which should be the natural one when Me chairs, sitting down for work
or reading. A few low reclining-chairs should also be provided, and a broad,
low couch with plenty of pillows gives an air of comfort to this room. The
color of the walls, draperies, and furniture of the living-room should be soft,
quiet, and restful. ^J?^1?18 Some of the sofa-pillows, however, may be of room.
rich and brilliant hues.

THE PARLOR

In some of the most delightful houses in this country they have dispensed with
the parlor, the library and large living-room serving for family and friends,
while a small reception-room is used for ceremonious callers.

A parlor should be elegant and dainty. The tints of walls, ceilings, and
carpets should harmonize and be in delicate tones. The furniture should be
light and elegant, the draperies rich, and pictures and ornaments good, even if
that means very few of them. Really, unless one has a large establishment, it
is best to omit the parlor. Its place may be supplied by a small
reception-room, daintily furnished. The money that would be expended on the
parlor may be used to far better advantage in the living-room, library, and
other parts of the house.

THE BEDROOMS

The furnishing of these rooms is as important as that of any other part of the
house. It is in the sleeping-room that one must get an interval of that
absolute physical and mental rest which every human being requires during the
twenty-four hours of each day.

In sickness or health, there is no food or medicine that has such an influence
on the physical and mental condition as restful slumber. Not one person in
fifty reof6heait^ alizes the great importance of favorable condiful sleep,
tions for healthful sleep. Without this restorer of tired nature we become
nervous, irritable, and disagreeable to ourselves and those about us. Certainly
everything should be done to make the qualifications for sleep as nearly
perfect as possible.

Two people should not occupy the same room unless it is absolutely necessary.
If this is unavoidable, however, there Separate shou^ at least be separate
beds. The individual

beds in bed is not a difficult problem in these days of

sleeping- dainty enameled-iron beds, which can be had at rooms.

low prices, and of the beautiful brass beds for those who can afford them. The
most desirable floor for the bedroom is the well-finished one of hard wood. A
poorly finished pine floor may be

covered with a good matting, under which a smooth lining

of paper or some other material should first be

iaid down. Never nail a woolen carpet on the Pel!?st

floor for

floor of a bedroom. Rugs, large or small, that bedrooms, may be shaken and
aired frequently in the open air, may be used to give a look of warmth and
comfort that one likes in winter in our northern climate. Woolen stuffs absorb
dust and odors, and they should not be used if they cannot be subjected to
frequent dusting and airing.

The light in the sleeping-room should be softened by shades and draperies. It
is well to have two sets of shades at the windows, one set light in color, and
the inner one a dark green, which may be drawn down f softened at night, if
necessary. The draperies should be one for of some soft, light, washable
material. Slroom.e'

The necessary furniture for a bedroom is a bed, dressing-case, one or two plain
chairs and one easy-chair, a wash-stand of generous size, a toilet-set, a
towel-rack, and a table. In addition to these things, if there is space and one
can afford the extra outlay, a couch with a few pillows is a most. desirable
bedroom, piece of furniture. A large mat of Japanese matting, or a Japanese
cotton rug, should be placed in front of the wash-stand, whether the floor is
polished or covered with matting. Another piece of furniture that will be of
great service is a large screen. This may be used at night to prevent the wind
from blowing directly on the sleeper, and in the daytime to shut off the corner
where the toilet arrangements are kept. Of course the room will be all the more
charming and convenient if there are pictures, a few . book-shelves, and a
writing-desk. Such a room may be kept in an absolutely sanitary condition with
very little work.

The most important article in the bedroom is, of course, the bed. The perfect
bed will support all parts of the body in an absolutely horizontal position.
Firm springs and a good hair mattress will do this. The heavier the person

who sleeps in the bed, the more important it is bedcaabe that ^he sPrings snaU
be strong and firm. If made abso- economy must be considered, let it be in the
bedlTfortaSe?" stead; the springs should be as good as possible.

Nothing could be simpler or more sanitary than the iron or brass bed, with the
woven-wire springs fastened to an iron frame. The only objection to the woven
wire is that it is apt to sag—an almost unpardonable fault in a bed. But when
the wire is of extra good quality, closely and firmly woven, and attached to an
iron frame, it makes an excellent foundation for a single bed. If a thick,
well-made mattress is placed on this, the bed will be very comfortable. The
best arrangement, however, is to have a

rather hard mattress, of excelsior, for example, treisBs. w^h a good hair
mattress on top. This gives a

bed that will sustain the body at every point of contact, and which will be
soft without yielding. Everything else being equal, one should get perfect rest
on such a bed.

It may be thought that two hair mattresses would be better than one hard one
and one of hair, but this is not the case. I am convinced that half the unrest,
sleeplessness, and backache with which people are afflicted is due to the fact
that most of the beds in use do not support the body in a perfectly horizontal
position. Heavy people are the greatest sufferers, for the middle of the body
sinks into the yielding bed, and is at an angle where it should be straight so
as to give perfect freedom to the internal organs. If one cannot afford hair or
wool mattresses the excelsior mattress may be made more comfortable by laying a
thick pad upon it. The pad may be made like a comfortable, of cotton-bat» ting,
covered with white cotton cloth. It should be as wide and as long as the
mattress and quite thick.

People who have been accustomed to a very soft bed may object, at first, to a
support that yields only slightly; but once having given it a thorough test,
they will never be willing to sleep on any other kind of bed.

Teach the children to sleep on a firm bed, and with only the thinnest kind of a
pillow, if any, under the head.

The question of pillows is an important one also. It is difficult to induce one
who has acquired the habit of sleeping on high pillows to change to low ones.
But the children reason for making such a change is based on a should be
hygienic principle. When one is bolstered up in bed it is impossible to relax
all the muscles, a an almost thing which can only be done when the head is ^^JJ
^ almost on a level with the rest of the body. One position, should gradually
accustom himself to sleeping ^ with the head low. The pillows may be lowered a
little each week until the desired point is reached.

The length of the bed and the length of the sheets are two important factors in
the comfort—or discomfort—of the sleeper. The measurement of the bed on the L
ft of inside should not be less than seventy-eight inches. sheets of The
finished sheet should measure at least two and three quarter yards. This will
admit of the sheet being tucked well under the bottom of the mattress, and of
there being enough at the top to turn back and prevent the blankets from coming
in contact with the face and hands.

Some housekeepers are particular in this respect with all the beds except those
occupied by the servants, to whom they give sheets of the smallest possible
dimensions. It should be remembered that the generous sheet adds not only to
the comfort of the sleeper, but that it also is a protection to the bedding.

Coverings should be as light as possible, and of a material that will insure
ventilation. There is nothing better than the washable woolen blankets.

A word as to the quality of the blankets. There is no question but that the
all-wool blanket, being warmer and Blankets lighter, is more desirable than one
of cotton or of wool. The only advantage of a mixture of cotton and wool is
that the blanket does not shrink so much in the washing; but if the work is
properly done there need be no perceptible shrinkage in the woolen ones.

There are blankets that are so fine and costly that one hesitates to have them
washed, or even cleaned, often. Such blankets are generally protected by a
cotton or linen cover, and can be used a long time without cleaning. But even
if these blankets do not become soiled, after a while they will have absorbed
impurities from the body, and they should have frequent and thorough airings.
The better plan is to have less costly coverings, that may be washed at least
once a year.

The making of the bed is quite as important as any other matter connected with
it. Everything possible should be r done to prevent discomfort and restraint.
In the tance of a following directions, it is the sleeper who is con

webeaade sidere<j, and not the style of tne bed

1. Spread the under sheet on the mattress,

getting it perfectly smooth. Tuck it in all around.

2. Spread the top sheet on smoothly, having enough to

tuck in generously at the foot. After tucking the sheet

under the foot of the mattress, pull it down a

make^ li^le from the top, that it may not be too tight

bed. over the feet of the sleeper.

3. Put the blankets on, having the first one come

well down over the end of the mattress; lay the others even

with the end of the mattress. If the blankets are double, see

that the open end is toward the head of the bed, so that

half of the blanket may be turned back if one wishes.

4. Tuck the top sheet and the blankets in at the side of

the mattress, not under it. This leaves the covering free.

5. Put on the pillows and spread. How this shall be done depends upon the
mistress of the house. Taste and fashion vary in these matters constantly, and
they are of no vital importance. Still, system and care are essential, that the
bed may look neat and attractive.

The mattresses should be protected by large cases of

bleached or unbleached cotton cloth. Wide cotton should

be procured for this. In measuring for the width

of the case, allow for the width and the depth of Protection

r and care of

the mattress; m measuring for the length of the mattress, case, allow for the
length and the depth of the mattress. Thus, if your mattress is seventy-six
inches long, forty inches wide, and eight inches deep, you will require five
yards of cloth fifty inches wide. This allows for the seams in making, and for
some slight shrinkage. Fold the cloth together, and stitch it, leaving one side
open. Slip the mattress in at the open side, and sew it up. This sewing may be
like strong basting; for the covers should be taken off and washed twice a
year.

The mattresses for a double bed should be in such a form that the wear may come
on all parts equally. For this reason it is a good plan to have the mattress
made in two parts, one a square and the other an oblong. The oblong should be
as long as the square, of course, and wide enough to fill the space between the
edge of the square and the foot of the bedstead. If the square is turned about
from day to day, and the oblong piece is sometimes at the foot and sometimes at
the head, the wear on all parts of the mattress will be equalized.

The one objection that may be raised to this arrangement is that the seam where
the two pieces come together is sometimes annoying. To obviate this, a thin
comfortable, made of cotton-batting and white cotton cloth, may be spread over
the mattress.

If the springs are not covered, there should be a covering of some washable
material—strong unbleached cloth, for example. Springs that are of a style that
will admit of

their being slipped into a casing may have a covtoqtrbigi. ermg made like that
described for mattresses. If

this cannot be done, have the cover so made that it will cover the ends and
sides of the springs, and fasten it on with tapes. All springs should be
covered for the protection of the sheets and blankets.

1. Have mattress turned in different direction each day.

2. Spread under sheet smoothly over mattress, tucking it

under the mattress. remember. 3- Spread top sheet so as to tuck in well at
foot. 4. Blankets with free ends at the head.

5. Fold sheet over blankets, then turn both back in a fold. Tuck in at sides of
the bed, not under the mattress.

6. Put on spread and pillows.

THE KITCHEN

So much of the health and comfort of the family depends on the kitchen that the
most careful thought should be given to its furnishing.

First in importance is the range. As far as cooking appliances are concerned,
we are now in a transition stage.

With the exception of some localities far back in cooking country where it is
still used, wood as a fuel

purposes, for cooking has not been employed for many years.

Anthracite coal takes its place in some parts of the country, and bituminous
coal in others. For the last twenty years gas as a fuel for cooking purposes
has been growing in favor. Various forms of petroleum are also used.
Electricity is now preparing to enter the field as a powerful rival of all the
other fuels. The costliness of the cooking apparatus which it requires seems to
be the only obstacle in the way of its speedy adoption. This objection will, no
doubt, be eliminated in time. Certainly, for the great majority of
householders, coal will be the fuel for a long time to come.

Whatever fuel is used, let the range be one of the best in the market. This is
a true economy.

The necessary qualifications of a good range are: The range

1. That the draft shall be perfect.

2. That checks and dampers shall be so arranged that the heat may be increased
or decreased at will.

3. That there shall be ample oven-space.

4. That it is possible to make the oven as hot on the bottom as on the top.

5. That there shall be a good arrangement for broiling.

6. That the fire-box shall be large enough to take in sufficient coal for the
work to be done without being filled to the top.

7. That a large part of the top surface of the range may be made hot enough for
the boiling of liquids.

8. That the grate shall be of a kind that will admit of the bottom of the fire
being cleaned without the use of a poker. (The Dokash and Duplex grates are
both excellent.)

9. That the water-back is so arranged that an abundant supply of hot water may
be assured.

If a gas-range is to be used, see that the oven accommodations are ample, that
there is a good place for broiling, and that there is room enough on the top of
the range for boiling, stewing, frying, etc. Be sure that there is rangts. one
small burner, or even more, for simmering.

The gas-range should have a small pipe entering the chimney to carry off the
products of combustion.

The pipe which supplies the gas to the range should be of iron, and large
enough to insure a sufficient flow of gas when all the burners are in
operation.

Ample table-room in the kitchen simplifies the work. The tables should be
strong and well made. A white table is very attractive, but it means a great
deal of care. If the table is covered with white enameled cloth, it will always
look well, and it may be kept clean with little labor, provided hot dishes are
not placed on it. SiesT No matter what kind of tables are in use, there should
be several smooth hard-wood boards to receive the hot saucepans. These boards
may be scrubbed clean in the sink every day.

In large households where a great deal of cooking is done a table covered with
zinc is most useful.

A clock that is an accurate timekeeper is a necessity in the kitchen. There
should be a few strong chairs, and one

~- comfortable chair, and a shelf for cook-books and

Other con

venienoeB other reading matter. A slate and pencil for writkitchen ^own dauy
orders will be a convenience, and there ought to be an arrangement for hanging
dish-towels to dry in wet weather. A coal-hod, shovel, tongs, broom,
long-handled and short-handled brushes, dust-pan, draining-rack, hand-basin, a
fiber pail, and a tea-kettle will complete the necessary furnishing of the
kitchen.

KITCHEN UTENSILS

The number of cooking utensils, and the most desirable materials for them, are
difficult questions for the housekeeper to decide at any time; but to the
beginner they Ja" have an added importance, as the drain on the

en utensils, purse must usually be considered. It is a mistake to fill the
kitchen with all the utensils one may think she will be apt to need in the
future. It is wiser to get the necessary articles first, and to have them of
the best quality and the simplest construction. Utensils with the smoothest
possible surface, and no more coils or grooves than are absolutely necessary,
are the easiest to keep clean, and will be found to last the longest, and are
therefore an economy in time and money.

There are several qualifications that are desirable in a cooking utensil:

1. Smoothness. Desirable

2. Ability to stand high temperature without qualities cracking, melting, or
becoming rough. ^utensils8

3. Imperviousness to the absorption of grease or flavors.

4. Inability to impart flavor to, or to discolor, food substances.

There are not many materials that combine all these qualifications. Iron and
steel are desirable materials because they can sustain a high temperature
without in- ^ jxm jury, and if properly cared for they grow smoother and steel
and finer with use. For these reasons iron is the "^j®"1' most satisfactory
metal for the following articles: frying-kettles, frying-pans, omelet-pans,
waffle-irons, etc. Iron utensils should not be used for cooking fruits, or
similar articles into which acids enter, as they will discolor the preparation
and spoil the flavor.

The various kinds of granite or enameled ware, if ^^J8 °r of the first grade,
are generally very satisfactory. ware6 The surface is smooth and the utensils
are light.

Tinware is most useful for certain purposes. It must be remembered that this
metal melts at a rather low temperature, i. e., 442° F., and it should never be
exposed Tulare to a high temperature, such as is necessary, for example, in
frying; nor should it be placed over the fire or in the oven without being
covered with water, or some liquid in which water or milk enters. Water and
watery substances tend to reduce the temperature, while fatty substances tend
to raise it. (See " Temperature of Fats and Other Substances.")

Pewter and Britannia both melt at a low temper- Pewterand ature, and should be
used only for such purposes Bntanma' as do not require a dry heat. These metals
make satisfactory tea-pots, dish-covers, etc.

Woodenware absorbs odors and fats. Articles made of this material, when used as
receptacles for cereals, are apt to become filled with weevils. The use of
woodenware, therefore, for such purposes should be limited to the few articles
that can be made of no other material.

Stone- and earthenware and common crockery answer for all ordinary purposes.
For baking-dishes which are sent to the table, there is nothing more
satisfactory than the French fire-proof ware. It is durable and keeps its
color; the glaze does not crack, and the ware does not absorb odors. The
following is a list of the utensils needed in the kitchen:

TINWARE

Woodenware.

Stone- and earthenware for ordinary purposes.

Steamer large enough to steam puddings and brown bread.

2 sets of stamped muffin-pans, one containing 6 or 8 cups, and the other 12
cups.

4 cake-pans, XXX tin.

4 deep plates.

Molds for puddings and

creams. 2 graduated quart-measures. 2 graduated measuring-cups,

one divided into thirds, and

one into fourths. 6 milk-pans (these are useful

for many things). 2 dish-pans. Long-handled dipper. Coffee-biggin.

Puree-sieve.
Fine sieve.
Coarse strainer.
Fine strainer.
Coarse grater.
Fine grater.
Flour-scoop.
Sugar-scoop.

Boxes for sugar, rice, hominy,

meal, etc.
Tea-canister.
Frying-basket.
Spice-box.
Bread-box.
Cake-box.
Biscuit-cutter.

Tin pails for keeping drip-
pings and fats to be used
for frying.

IRONWARE

Scotch bowl for frying. No. 3 or 4; size depends on use.

2 omelet-pans of French polished ware or English hammered ware.

2 roasting-pans.

2 frying-pans, small and large.

Short-handled frying-pan, that maybe put in the oven.

Skewers (steel).
Waffle-iron.

3 double broilers—meat, fish,

and toast.
Soup-pot.
Griddle.
Meat-rack.
3 bread-pans.
Set of roll-pans.
2 porcelain-lined kettles.

GRANITE-WARE

8 stew-pans, ranging in size Colander.

from one holding 1 quart 2 double boilers, 1-quart size to one holding 2
gallons. and 2-quart size.

WOODENWARE

Flour-sieve. Board on which to cut bread,

Cover for flour-barrel. and 3 boards to use on cook

Molding-board. ing-table.
Board on which to cut meats. 6 wooden spoons.
Rolling-pin. Vegetable-masher
Chopping-bowl.

EARTHENWARE

6 bowls, ranging from 1-quart

size to 6-quart size. 6 white bowls, ranging from

1-pint size to 1-quart size.

6 cups and saucers.

6 white pitchers of various

sizes.
12 dinner-plates.

12 breakfast-plates. 2 or 3 pudding-dishes of vaSeveral platters and small
rious sizes.

dishes to use in putting Molds.

away food.

STONEWARE

Several pots of various sizes Jugs for molasses, vinegar, for use in keeping
butter, etc. salt-pork, moist cake, etc.

MISCELLANEOUS

Vegetable-slicer.
Palette-knife.
Bread-knife.
Butcher's knife.
Vegetable-knives.
Large fork.

Common knives and forks.

Egg-beaters.

Steel djsh-cloth.

Steel skewers.

Soap-shaker.

Teaspoons.

Table-spoons.

Strong iron spoons.
Lemon-squeezer.
Good scales.
Mortar and pestle.
Coffee-mill.
Tea-pot.
Coffee-pot.
Funnel.

Salt-, flour-, and pepper-
dredgers.
Ice-pick.
Skimmer.
Cake-turner.

Can-opener.

All cooking utensils should be of as simple construction as possible, but the
material and workmanship must be of the best. This is the wisest economy in the
long run.

Nearly all tin utensils are made by pressing thin sheets How tin of sheet-iron
into the required shapes, which are utensils then dipped into a bath of liquid
tin. Cheap tinware is made of a poor, light quality of sheet-iron, and has
merely a thin plating of tin, which soon wears off, making the utensils
useless. If tin is cleaned with a gritty substance, like sand, or scraped with
a sharp instrument, like a knife or steel skewer, the thin layer of tin
cleaning is apt to be cut through to the sheet-iron, and tin with the result is
fine lines of rust on the article. sand'

It is always best to buy block-tin, as then you are sure of getting a pure,
substantial article. Utensils made j^.^ of heavy block-tin cost two or three
times as much as those of poor, light, and often impure tin, but they will wear
five or six times as well.

Enameled wares, such as granite-ware, blue enamels, etc., are made of iron,
more or less heavy, coated with a preparation which is allowed to dry and is
then fused at a high temperature. These articles differ greatly ^t^sm in
quality, as is the case also with the tinware. In are made, purchasing any kind
of enameled ware, each piece

should be examined carefully to see that the en- Grades °*

enameled

amel is perfectly smooth. If it is cracked or ware. chipped in the least,
reject it, for it will not wear well. Manufacturers separate all such pieces
from the perfect ware and sell them as seconds. Dealers will often assure you
that these seconds are just as good as the perfect ware, except in appearance;
but this is not true.

All enameled ware should be made of a firm, unbending material. The slightest
bend causes the enamel to crack, and it then chips off. See that stew-pans and
other ftualities utensils in granite-ware or blue and white enam- necessary

els are firm and of good weight. Enameled iaTM""11

, , eled ware,

spoons are not satisfactory, because they are apt

to bend and crack. For all stirring and beating the wooden spoons are best.
When a large, strong spoon is required, well-tinned iron spoons are the most
satisfactory. Measuring-spoons should be well-plated table-spoons of the usual
size.

Ironware is most satisfactory for many purposes. The only objection to it is
its weight and the extra work needed to keep it clean. The longer iron is used,
the Advan- smoother and more valuable it becomes. Next

tfUGTBS 01

ironware, to copper, it is the best material for retaining heat, and for this
reason it is well to have a few stew-pans and the soup-kettle of iron.
Porcelain- Porcelain-lined kettles are very good, if properly lined ket-
treated; but if abused, the lining soon breaks and

tles- the kettle is useless. Copper Copper requires too much care, and is too
heavy, utensils. £Qr use in ordinary household.

The yellow earthenware is generally finished very smoothly, and makes excellent
mixing-bowls. It is made of a softer paste, and is fired at a lower
temperature, than earthen ^e wnite s^one china, and so breaks more easily,
ware. Therefore, although the first cost of the white stone china is greater,
its durability makes it cheaper in the end.

Receptacles for food should be made of a substance that will not harbor
insects. Tin, stone, earthenware, and glass Becep- are the best materials for
this purpose. Wooden taeles for receptacles should only be used when these
other 00' materials are too costly or are impracticable. Stoneware and
earthenware absorb fats, and tin does not; hence it is best to use tin pails
for holding the various Stone-and kinds of fats.

[earthen- Glass jars are excellent for holding small quan

soA fat" tities of sucn groceries as are not injured by light, as, for example,
rice, currants, raisins, etc. Bread, cake, crackers, and ginger-snaps will
retain their crispness and freshness if kept in tin receptacles, while if they
are kept in stone jars they will become moist.

Taken all in all, tin makes the best receptacles for holding all cereals, dry
legumes, sugar, etc. The various receptacles in which these stores are kept
should be plainly labeled.

Galvanized iron is used for many articles about the house for which a strong
material that will not rust is required. Therefore the ash-barrel,
garbage-pail, and refrig- Galvanized erator-pan should be made of galvanized
iron. iren

The refrigerator should be chosen for its simplicity of construction and its
sanitary arrangements. When one lives at a great distance from the markets, the
re- The refrigfrigerator should be of generous size. In such a erator. case, if
the household be large, a small ice-chest for fish is quite desirable.

In the list of utensils given, only such articles have been mentioned as would
be required by a family living in a moderate way. Of course people who keep a
lux- utengil8 urious table will require many things not mentioned may i,e here,
and, on the other hand, people living in a adapted to small way may cut down
the list to suit their cir- living! cumstances. Whether the mode of living is
plain or sumptuous, what has been said of the quality of the utensils remains
true.

How to arrange the covers of the saucepans is always a problem. There is
nothing to hang them by, and one rarely has shelf-room enough for them. I have
found that a long rack, such as is placed under the j^*0,^meat when roasting in
the oven, is an excellent con- pan covers, trivance for holding these covers.
Place it in one corner of the shelf, and slip the edges of the covers between
the bars, arranging the covers according to size, the largest at one end, and
the smallest at the other. This little convenience economizes both space and
time, for a cover can be found or replaced without a moment,s delay.

VENTILATION

An important duty of the housekeeper in cold weather is to see that the house
is properly aired and ventilated.

Every room that is occupied should be thoroughly aired each day. One can keep
warmer in a room filled with pure air that has a temperature of 65° than in a
room where the temperature is much higher and the air impure. The temperature
of the house should not exceed 70°.

The rooms and hallways of the main portion of the house should be thrown
together as much as possible, thus keeping an equal temperature throughout the
house, and ^toeTM insuring a free circulation of air. If there is a window in
the upper hall, or in a room opening off the hall, which may be kept slightly
open, it will help keep the air of the house pure. The hot air that comes from
the Method of ^urnace supplies the house, to a certain extent, obtaining a with
fresh air. If the house is heated by steam circulation or ljot water, this
supply is lacking, and there is greater need of some openings that will admit
pure air. A piece of board about two or three inches wide, and as long as the
window is broad, may be placed under the lower sash of one or two windows, as,
for example, the hall windows. This will give access to fresh air without
makinga draft, and is a good arrangement for bedroom windows in extremely cold
weather.

There are patent ventilators that fit under the sash in this manner, which are
very satisfactory. They are in the form of a narrow box, one side of which has
a number of small openings, the top being covered with fine wire netting. There
are slides that may be drawn over this netting when one wishes to exclude all
or part of the air. These boxes are placed under the sash, with the openings on
the outside.

Many people cannot sleep with the windows open at night or in damp weather. A
screen which will admit pure air, Screen for and yet keep out the dampness,
should be provided excluding for such cases, and may be made in this manner:
dampness. pas£en ^n Angora flannel to a frame similar to those used for
mosquito nettings. This may be placed in the window at night, after the sash is
raised. In the morning you will find the inside of the screen dry, while the
outside will be covered with moisture, showing that dampness was kept out of
the room at the same time that fresh air was admitted.

There are a few things that one should keep in mind in order that the
ventilation of the house mayie done intelligently.

All gases and moisture expand and rise as they ^c^sary6 are heated. for inteiii

All gases and moisture contract and have a Nation!' tendency to fall as they
are chilled.

Some of the gases are at the ordinary temperature lighter than air, while
others are heavier. Carbonic-acid gas (carbon dioxid) is about one and one half
times as heavy as air.

Remsen says: "Pure air may be defined as air which consists of nitrogen,
oxygen, and carbon dioxid in the proportions stated above" (about f nitrogen, i
oxygen, and Toto carbon dioxid), "together with some ofpurealr. water-vapor,
ammonia, ozone, and hydrogen dioxid, and nothing of an injurious nature." It is
evident from what has been said that there is constant danger of contamination
from natural causes. The most common cause of contamination is the breathing of
human Staminabeings in rooms which are inadequately supplied tdon. with air.
The breathing process involves the using up of oxygen and the giving off of
carbon dioxid and small quantities of organic matter which is undergoing
decomposition. If the quantity of oxygen is reduced below a certain limit the
air becomes unfit for breathing purposes, and evil effects follow. An ordinary
inhalation will not then be sufficient to supply the blood with the oxygen
necessary to purify it, and the system will begin to suffer. Headache,
drowsiness, and a general sense of discomfort follow. The ill effects of
breathing the air of a badly ventilated room occupied by a number of human
beings are, however, due for the most

part to the presence of the small quantities of decomposing

organic matters which are given off from the lungs

wMohfol! witn the carbon dioxid and the gases. These act

low the as poisons. They have been thrown off from the

breathing lunorS because they are unfit for use, and when of impure ~ 7

air. they »re taken back again the normal processes

of the body are interfered with. The subject of ventilation has been so
thoroughly discussed of late years that great improvement has been made in the
arrangements for supplying pure air to dwelling-apartments and audiencehalls;
but there is still room for improvement. Fortunately, in most buildings there
is one source of supply of pure air which is independent of the architect's
plans. This is the diffusion of gases through the porous materials of which the
buildings are constructed. There is also a good deal of ventilation through the
cracks and other apertures which are always to be found in our buildings.

Under some conditions which are not thoroughly understood the air becomes badly
contaminated by the decomposition of animal and vegetable matter. Air thus

Air when . . , j .« -,.

eontami- contaminated may cause specific diseases, and

nated some of these are spoken of as being caused by """ease*18" malaria, a
word which signifies simply bad air.

"What it is in this bad air which causes these diseases has not yet been
determined; but it seems probable, from researches on other diseases, that
there are in the air microscopic germs which have the power to develop in the
body and then to cause the symptoms which are referred to as malaria. Germs of
one kind and another are undoubtedly present in great variety, and they play
important parts in connection with the life and health of man, and also in the
destruction of plants and animals in which life has become extinct."

In ventilating a room the temperature must be taken into consideration. Whether
a room is warm or cold, it is always

safe and well to have a window opened at the top. If

the room is very warm this is absolutely necessary, ture^oon

because the heated air rises. If the room is cold sidered in

all the carbon dioxid does not rise; therefore there ve^at"

should be an opening in the lower part of the room

for the escape of the gas and the admission of fresh air.

In sleeping-rooms, which usually are cool, the lower part of a window should be
opened, and the top also Howto should be let down. If in summer the windows
ventilate are provided with a netting, it is a good arrange- deepingment to
have the entire window covered; then the sash may be raised and lowered at
will.

The kitchen windows should be protected in the same manner. At all seasons of
the year, while work is going on in kitchen and laundry, the windows should be
let down from the top. By this precaution, not only „/kitchen! is the air of
these rooms kept pure and sweet, but odors are prevented from getting into
other parts of the house.

The entire house should have a thorough airing every morning. In this general
airing the health and 'comfort of the various members of the household Bfouidbe
must be taken into consideration. No one should ventilated be exposed to a
draft or chill. There is little dan- ^SrwigK ger in this to the healthy person
who is moving iy. briskly about, but with the weak and delicate it is another
matter. Some rooms, therefore, must be kept warm while the rest of the house is
undergoing the airing.

The following plan for the daily airing of the house might be observed. the
daily

1. The first thing in the morning, open the win- airing, dows in the lower
hall, sitting-room, and diningroom. In winter this should be done for a few
minutes only.

2. As soon as the sleeping-rooms are vacated, open the windows, take the
coverings from the bed, one piece at a

time, and spread them about the room where they will get the full effect of a
current of air. Beat the pillows and place them near the windows. Turn the
mattress over the foot of the bed, that the air may circulate all around it.

3. The sleeping-rooms should air for at least an hour even in the coldest
weather.

4. Open windows in the upper and lower halls, and also open the outside door,
if it is safe to do so. After break

advan fask a'r dining-room, which should also have tagesof a" a thorough airing
after each meal. Air the other generous parts of the house as the comfort and
convenience sweep o o£ ^e family wil l permit.

through- It should be remembered that a great volume °house? of pure air
sweeping through the house will in ten minutes remove the impure air more
effectually than airing for an hour or more with windows only partly opened and
doors closed.

A knowledge of the nature and action of oxygen is essential to an intelligent
understanding of the value and necessity of pure air in our homes and
elsewhere. Any good book on chemistry will explain this so clearly that any one
even without a knowledge of chemistry can comprehend it readily.

CHAPTER IV

DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSEHOLD WORK

General directions for sweeping and dusting. To clean matting. How to wash
windows. Cleaning copper and brasses. How to clean painted woodwork. Care of
window-sashes. Care of dining-room. Care of tableware. Care of kitchen and
pantries. Care of the floors. Care of kitchen utensils. Tinware. Woodenware.
The tea-kettle. Tea-pots and coffee-pots. Care of the refrigerator. The sink.
To clean an iron sink. Care of cellar. Household refuse. Care of the plumbing.

The household machinery should be kept in such order that no member of the
family shall be uncomfortably conscious of its working. The daily attention to
the little duties which, small in themselves, in the aggregate take much time
and thought, is what keeps the machinery working smoothly. Here the stitch in
time which saves nine is fully demonstrated.

Method and order are two most important factors in the management of the
household. A place 'j^^nt for everything, and everything in its place, is a
rule factors, the strict observance of which will insure order.

If the work of the household is systematized, each day will see its allotted
tasks accomplished and the work of the following day unhampered. It is only in
this way Work that the household machinery can be run without should be

friction. systema

uzed.

Each member of the family is a part of the working machinery, and it is
important that each one should perform his or her part cheerfully and promptly.
It is no kindness to child or adult to let him shirk his duties. Life is made
up of little things, and they form the character. .

Perhaps no two housekeepers follow the same plan in the daily routine of the
household work. The mode of living, individual ideas as to the best system,
etc., govern every housekeeper.

For the benefit of the inexperienced, a simple outline of

the daily program is given as a suggestion. As the method

of doing the work is described in separate sections,

worktoaid general outline is all that is necessary here.

inexpert- 1. Make the fires, and air the dining-room and

;nced hall,
house-
keeper. 2. Prepare the breakfast and set the table.

3. Put the bedrooms to air while the family

is at breakfast.

4. Remove the breakfast-dishes; put away the food. Sort the dishes and put to
soak all dishes and utensils that have had food in them which would be likely
to stick.

5. Put dining-room and sitting-room in order, airing them well.

6. Wash the dishes, and put the kitchen and pantries in order. Prepare dishes
that require slow cooking, and put them to cook.

7. Make the beds and put sleeping-rooms and bath-room in order.

8. Trim the lamps.

9. Dust halls and stairs; sweep piazzas and sidewalk. Make the ^* ^o special
work of the day.

work light On washing and ironing days make the general ""day81*" W0I-k as
light and simple as possible, unless a regular laundress is employed. If each
member of the family will do something to lighten the labor of the maids, and
the meals are simple and hot, the work will go on smoothly.

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SWEEPING AND DUSTING

When cleaning is to be done, it will pay to take ample time for doing it well.
A house may be made to look clean and orderly when in fact it is quite the
reverse. Take time

A room with a polished floor may be kept per- to clean fectly clean all the
year round with half the trouble thoTMugnthat one has to expend where floors
are carpeted. Everything possible should be taken out of a carpeted room, first
brushing and dusting each piece thoroughly.

Cover the heavy pieces of furniture with cloths kept for this purpose. Then
dust the pictures, using a soft feather duster for the frames, and a coarse
brush for the backs. Cover all the pictures, mirrors, clocks, ^"n^for etc.,
with pieces of coarse unbleached cotton. (It sweeping, will be a great
convenience if a number of these cloths are kept for covering all the furniture
and ornaments that cannot easily be moved.) Close the doors and open the
windows.

It is sometimes a good plan to scatter damp paper or damp bran over a carpet
that has become more than ordinarily dusty; then begin to sweep, holding the
broom almost perpendicular and taking short strokes. Sweep keeping, in one
general direction, then take up the dirt.

Brush the dust from every part of the frames and ledges of windows and doors,
using a medium-sized brush, such as a paint-brush, for the moldings and
corners, and finish with a soft cloth. Cheese-cloth makes a good duster.

Cover the broom with a clean piece of flannel or ^jJufan? cotton flannel, and
brush the ceiling and walls, oeiling. using a downward stroke on the walls.
Brush the baseboards. Next, brush the edges and corners of the carpet with a
short corn-broom, and sweep the carpet a second time.

While the dust is settling, wash the windows. When the windows are finished,
take the cloths off the furniture and

pictures, and dust the room. Wipe spots from the paint and

woodwork. The carpet should then be wiped over

windows, with a clean cloth wrung out of ammonia and wapaint, and

woodwork, ter, using two tablespoonfuls of ammonia to four quarts of tepid
water. Rinse the cloth frequently

of carpet. Put up the hangings and lay the rugs in place;

bring back the furniture and ornaments. If the woodwork of any of the furniture
needs polishing or oiling, now is the time to do it.

If there is a fireplace in the room, all the brass or steel about it should be
removed before the room is swept. The Care of grate an& fireplace should then
be cleaned, and fireplace the hearth properly brushed. It should be washed and
after the carpet is swept. The brass or steel must be polished in the kitchen
or laundry before it is replaced.

If there are registers in the floor, lift them before you begin to sweep. Have
a large paper spread on the carpet, and brush the registers on this. Wipe the
hot-air pipe registers. to remove all dust. Lay a newspaper over the opening,
and place the registers, upside down, over it. The paper is to be removed when
the sweeping is finished and the registers are put in place.

Rugs and Draperies.—The draperies which were taken down when the room was being
prepared for sweeping should be well shaken in the open air, and, if possible,
hung on lines out of doors. Brush heavy material, like velvet, plush, brocade,
etc.

The rugs should be laid face downward on the grass, or on a smooth wooden
surface, and beaten with a ratan. Then they must be turned face upward and
brushed. Hang them on the line to air. If there is no grass or plain surface on
which to beat the rugs, hang them on the line at once, shake out the loose
dust, and beat with the ratan.

It is a bad habit to hold the rug at one end and shake it. The weight of the
rug loosens the threads at the upper end; hence the raveling near the borders.

Furniture.—Upholstered furniture should be dusted with a brush, and wiped with
an old silk duster. The woodwork must be rubbed with a soft cloth. If there is
carving on the woodwork, it should be dusted with a brush.

When the woodwork of the furniture requires polishing, wipe it with a soft
sponge, or cloth, which has been wrung out of tepid water or warm milk. Wipe
dry, and then polish with encaustic No. 1, or simply oil with the turpentine
and oil. Apply the polish with a soft cloth, using a circular motion. The cloth
should be only slightly moistened with the mixture. Polish with a soft cloth,
rubbing with the grain of the wood. All stains must be removed from the wood
before it is polished.

Leather Furniture.—Dust the furniture carefully, and wash the leather with a
soft cloth wrung out of hot milk, rubbing until dry; then polish with encaustic
No. 1, putting the polish on lightly. Polish with a soft cloth; if the leather
is dark, it may be polished with oil and turpentine.

Marble, Tiles, etc.—Marble is easily destroyed, and most of the injuries it
receives are difficult to repair.

Acids dissolve marble readily; the stronger the acid, the more rapid its
action. The smooth, fine finish given to marble is not only for beauty, but
also for protection. If this finish is destroyed, the rough surface is more
acidTon easily soiled and stained. Even the mildest acid marble, will remove
the polish. A piece of lemon left on a basin, mantel-shelf, or table for even a
few moments will roughen the surface of the marble.

As all acids are neutralized by an alkali, the latter should be immediately
poured on the marble when an acid To neutrahas been spilled on it. There are so
many alkalis ^^Ton at hand in nearly every household—ammonia, soda, marble.

borax, for example—that this is not difficult to do. If the

acid has remained long enough on the marble to dissolve the

surface, the finish may be restored in a measure by rubbing

the rough spot with pumice-stone and water. A generous

bed of the pumice-stone should be spread on the injured

place; this should then be wet with water and rubbed with

a large, flat stone. It takes a great deal of pressure and

much rubbing to get a smooth surface again. The work

might be done from time to time, say for twenty minutes or

half an hour every day, until the polish returns.

Stains on marble are often difficult to remedy,

Difficulty because the agent used to remove the stain might of remov

ing stain*, injure the marble. Acids must, of course, be avoided, but alkalis
may be used with safety. Oil- or grease-spots, when of recent occurrence, may
be

removed by absorption and neutralization. Fullers, earth and French chalk are
two of the best agents for absorb

oUOTgreafe ing grease. Caustic soda or lye will saponify it

with full- and so neutralize it. It is often expedient to com

8soda!ete!, bine these two methods

If grease is spilled on marble, make a strong, hot

solution of sal-soda, and add enough fullers, earth to make

a thin paste; spread this on the spot, and let it remain for

twenty-four hours. If the stain has not fully disappeared at

the end of that time, repeat the application.

Wood-ashes may also be applied to grease-spots with success. Boil water and
wood-ashes together for half an hour, and add enough whiting to make a thick
paste. Spread this on the stain as directed for fullers' earth.

The ordinary care of marble is simple enough. It should be washed with a soft
cloth and soap and water. If it is very much soiled, it may be cleaned with any
one of the sand soaps or pumice-stone and soap. If the marble lacks luster
after this treatment, polish it with encaustic No. 1 or No. 2.

Tiles are cleaned and polished in the same manner.

TO CLEAN MATTING

In the care of matting, it must be remembered that the less water used on it
the better, and that all alkalis and soaps tend to discolor it.

Have a care that nothing that will soil the mat- Substances ting is dropped or
spilled on it. tomatting.

Sweep the matting with a soft brush, and then go over it with a damp cloth to
remove all dust.

If there are soiled spots, try to remove them by rubbing with a cloth wrung out
of hot water.

If grease or oil has been spilled, make a thin paste with fullers' earth and
cold water, and spread thickly To remove on the spot. When this dries lay a
paper over it, grease or and let it stand two or three days. Brush off the oaJ
^? dry earth, and the stain will have disappeared.

Should water be spilled on a matting, wipe it as To remove dry as possible, and
let the windows stand open moisture until the matting is dry; or, if the
weather is too firom0mat" cold or damp for this, dry the matting by applying
heat. Lay a dry cloth over the wet place, and go over it with a hot flat-iron
until all moisture is removed.

HOW TO WASH WINDOWS

Remove all dust from the windows, both inside and outside. If the woodwork
requires cleaning, do this before the glass is washed. Use a wooden skewer and
a cloth to remove dust from corners and grooves.

The glass may be washed with clear water, water MateriaiB in which has been put
a little liquid ammonia, soda, for the or soap, or it may be cleaned, like
paint, with whiting. The essential thing is to get a clean, perfectly polished
glass.

Have plenty of clean, soft cloths and some soft paper; crumpled newspapers
answer very well. Have a pail of tepid water. Dip the washing-cloth in this and
then squeeze almost dry. Rub the glass with the damp cloth, rinsing it
frequently. After all the dirt has been removed in this manner, rub dry with a
clean, soft cloth, and then polish with soft paper. Be careful to get all the
corners clean.

If the glass is cleaned with whiting, make a thin cream of water and whiting.
Dip a clean cloth in this, and polish the glass as you would silver. Rub off
the whiting with soft paper, and polish with clean soft paper.

The whiting may be wet with dilute alcohol or household

ammonia. This mixture cleans the glass quickly.

Secret of ^ne secret of cleaning windows satisfactorily is

success in to have the cloths clean, to use plenty of them,

cleaning an(j n0^ ^0 use water so freely that it drips from windows. , J r

pane or sash.

CLEANING COPPER AND BRASSES

There are so many excellent preparations on the market for cleaning copper and
brasses that it is not necessary to make the polishes at home for this purpose.
At the same time, it is well to know how various substances affect these
metals, and why we use them.

Acids clean copper and brasses readily; but unless all traces of them are
immediately removed, the metal will tarEffects of n^s^ quickly- Whenever the
simple acids, or acids acids on and salt, are used, they must be washed off at
cop^fnd once with pure water. If the articles so cleaned are boilers, andirons,
ornaments, etc., the cleaning should be followed by a rubbing with rottenstone
or tripoli and oil. After a thorough treatment of this kind, brasses and copper
articles will remain untarnished for a long time. If a cleaning preparation
contains an acid,— and nearly all the preparations on the market do,—the
cleaning should be followed by an application of whiting, which will neutralize
the acid and preserve the surface from tarnishing.

Cleaning preparations that contain naphtha or an acid accomplish the work much
more quickly than when oil and rottenstone only are used.

■ Brasses cleaned with oil and rottenstone alone, tained by or with tripoli,
will have a soft, rich yellow tone. different When acids and naphtha are used,
the color is vTMonla~ whiter and, of course, less rich.

Bearing all these points in mind, one may select Selection the cleaning
substance that will give the result ^ffi^ffi aimed at, be that the durability
of the work, the quickness with which it may be accomplished, or the color
desired.

To Clean with an Acid and Salt.—Wash thoroughly the article which is to be
cleaned. Mix common salt and oxalic acid or vinegar in a saucer. Dip a soft
cloth in cigg^g this, and rub the surface until all tarnish is re- with oxalic
moved. Wash the article in plenty of water, and ^^j114 then wipe perfectly dry.
This method is frequently used in cleaning cooking utensils, in which case the
greatest care must be taken to wash the saucepan, etc., thoroughly after the
treatment.

Brasses or copper that are very much tarnished may be washed in a solution of
sal-soda to remove all grease, then subbed with acid, either oxalic acid,
lemon-juice, To clean or strong vinegar, and washed thoroughly, wiping with
saldry. Polish with rottenstone or tripoli and sweet- 8°fda'e^ oil, using a
woolen cloth, and rubbing hard. Wipe off the oil and scouring mixture, and go
over the surface with a dry flannel and dry tripoli or rottenstone; finish with
a soft, clean cloth. If the article has not a thick coat of tarnish, the
washing with soda or acid may be omitted; but it is important that the surface
be cleaned from all grease.

The above method should be followed when any of the cleaning preparations found
in the market are employed, except that whiting should be substituted for
tripoli, oil, or rottenstone in the final polishing.

Brasses and copper articles retain their brightness, after they have been
properly cleaned, a long time when kept in a dry atmosphere; but when exposed
to dampness they tarnish quickly.

HOW TO CLEAN PAINTED WOODWORK

Painted and varnished surfaces should be treated with great consideration. It
is possible in a few minutes to do Chemicals an amount of damage that cannot be
repaired in should be days. The careless use of chemicals on these fin"8care"11
^es causes the greater part of the trouble. If we can but fix in our minds the
effect some chemicals have on certain materials, it will help us to use them
more intelligently.

Paint is softened by wet alkalis; when the solution is strong enough it
dissolves the paint.

The alkalis most commonly used in the household are ammonia, sal-soda, potash,
and borax. The most caustic of How to these alkalis are potash and sal-soda;
the least test the caustic is borax. If we take a board which has ealkalis°f
been painted or varnished, and put a few drops each of a solution of soda,
potash, ammonia, and borax on different parts, we can see how each affects the
paint; the stronger the solution of any of them, of course the more quickly it
will soften the paint. The same kind of a test might be made with a varnished
surface. The effect, If we now repeat the experiment on new spots, added"0 and
almost as soon as the liquids have been alkaline dropped on the painted or
varnished surface we to nentei? a<^ a few drops of oil, stirring it well, we
will find lize. that the paint or varnish is only slightly damaged. The oil
neutralized the power of the alkalis, and the injury done to the paint or
varnish was the work of the few moments before the oil was added. If, however,
the oil was applied in too small a quantity to wholly neutralize the alkali,
the latter would continue its destructive work, but very slowly and feebly. If
a large quantity of the oil is added instantly when the alkaline solution is
dropped on the board, the effect upon the finish will be scarcely perceptible.
We have learned from this simple experiment:

1. That paints and varnishes may be dissolved by the alkalis in common use in
the household, and that the stronger the solution, the more rapidly it acts.

2. That the destructive action of the alkali be^earned may be arrested by the
application of any oily from these substance.

If there is not enough oil to wholly neutralize the alkali, the action will go
on feebly; but if there is enough oil, or an excess of it, all destructive
action is arrested.

Putting this knowledge to a practical use, we have been taught that no strong
alkali should be put on painted or varnished surfaces; that no strong caustic
soaps inease of should be used on paint or varnish; that in case analkaline of
accident where an alkali is spilled on a painted "being8 or varnished surface,
some sort of oil or fat spilled on should be instantly poured on the spot.
Gener- ^^s^e" ally the oil nearest at hand is salad-oil, and this surface add

is such a pure oil that it is excellent for such a °''

r stant/y.

purpose.

In cleaning painted or varnished surfaces we Avoiduso should keep in mind what
we have learned in of strong these experiments, and avoid the use of alkalis
SRi? and strong soaps.

When the paint is to be cleaned, have the room thoroughly swept and dusted,
walls, ceiling, grooves, and ledges. Use a painter's brush to remove the dust
from the grooves and corners. Mix some whiting and cold water to the
consistency of thick cream. Three woolen cloths and some soft white How to
cotton cloths will be necessary. There should also clean paint be two pails,
each half filled with hot water, and a small wooden skewer such as butchers
use. Put

whiting.

a woolen cloth in each pail of water, and keep the third one dry. Press nearly
all the water from one of the cloths, dip it in the whiting mixture, and begin
cleaning the paint. Rub hard, with an upward and downward stroke, when plain
walls are being cleaned; in woodwork, follow the slight grain left by the
painter's brush. Next, carefully wash off all the whiting, using the water and
cloth in the second pail; then wring the cloth dry, and wipe the surface with
this. Now rub dry with the dry woolen or cotton cloth. This final rubbing gives
a smooth finish to the paint that not only improves its appearance, but tends
to keep it clean much longer than if the surface were left half dried. All the
grooves and corners should be cleaned with a bit of the cloth on the point of
the wooden skewer.

Begin at the top and work downward, washing a space about a yard square. Never
use water enough to have it run on the wall in little streams; this leaves a
Avoid us- streaked surface.

ing too

muchwa- If the paint is very smoky or oily, a tablespoon

terandiet- ful 0f household ammonia may be added to each tangitform J streaks,
gallon oi water.

Should soap be preferred to the whiting, make

suds with it; but do not rub soap on the cloth, except in cases

where the suds will not remove the dirt.

Enamel finishes require different treatment from ordinary

paint. They are finished, like fine varnishes, by being rubbed

down with water and tripoli.

Wipe off all the dust, and then wipe with a clean

of 6enainei woolen cloth wrung as dry as possible in hot water.

finishes. Rub dry with a second woolen or cotton cloth. The dry rubbing is
important, as it gives the surface brilliancy. Should there be soiled places
which the damp cloth will not clean, put a little wet powdered tripoli on a
small piece of flannel, and rub gently until the stain has entirely
disappeared. Be careful not to use so much pressure that the powder will cut
through the varnish. Polish with the dry cloth. Should you not have the
tripoli, powdered pumicestone will answer.

Care of Natural-Wood Finish—To have the interior of the house finished in the
natural wood is a great boon to the housekeeper, provided she takes proper care
of it. One should avoid using water on these woods as much as possible. Oil and
turpentine or alcohol is the best substance with which to treat them, as it
preserves the finish and the wood. When any place on the wood becomes very much
soiled, it may be cleaned by rubbing with a woolen cloth wet with turpentine or
kerosene. The turpentine removes the gloss, and should be followed with oil. A
little tripoli can be moistened with oil and the spot cleaned with this. Once a
year go over the woodwork with a mixture of paraffin-oil and tur- To regtore
pentine, using equal parts of the oil and tur- dry or pentine, unless the
finish looks dry and cracked, g^^^ in which case rub in the pure oil. On dark
wood, when the finish has this dry, cracked, or faded look, the boiled
linseed-oil is better than the paraffin-oil. The oil should be thoroughly
rubbed in, and if one application does not bring back the color and finish,
apply about once in two weeks until the surface is restored. It is only when
the finished surface is exposed to heat, sun, or moisture that

these conditions are likely to appear, as, for exam

, j , , . . , . Careofout

ple, the woodwork near steam-pipes, registers, wm- side doorS.

dows, sinks, or in bath-rooms, etc. The frequent

application of oil, well rubbed in, will keep such exposed

places in good condition. Outside doors should be oiled with

pure boiled linseed-oil several times each year.

When the regular yearly cleaning is being done, have the

woodwork of the room brushed and wiped free from every

particle of dust. Moisten a woolen cloth with

Yearly pol- mixture of oil and turpentine, and rub the ianing of c 7

woodwork, wood finish. Follow this with a dry woolen cloth,

rubbing hard to give a polish.

If the odor of turpentine is objectionable, and expense is not a serious
question, wood-alcohol may be substituted for the turpentine.

If there are any bruised or scratched places on the woodwork, restore the color
and finish before oiling. (See "To Restore Color and Finish to Woods.")

CARE OF WINDOW-SASHES

Window-sashes that are finished in oil or varnish require special care. They
are often exposed to the heat of the sun and to moisture caused by steam
condensing on the cold glass or the melting of frost in winter, etc. The
injury-to ljeat of the sun draws the oil from the finish, and

window- . . ,

sashes various other conditions combine to destroy the

caused by finish 0n this part of the woodwork sooner than heat and

moisture, that in any other part of the room. If the wood is kept well oiled
all this damage can be avoided. Have a little boiled linseed-oil in a shallow
cup. Make a small soft pad, and dip it in the oil. Rub this on the sash, being
careful not to get any on the glass, as it rfwSdow- ta^es tTMe to remove it. Be
generous to the part where the top and bottom sashes meet, as this is the place
that receives the greatest proportion of sun and moisture. This oiling might be
done once a month.

When the sashes have been neglected and they have become rough and dry, rub
them smooth with sandpaper, oil with boiled linseed-oil, and then put on a
finish as directed in "To Restore Color and Finish to Woods."

CARE OP DINING-ROOM

The dining-room should be kept in perfect order, and it

should be clean and free from odors. There are reasons for

and against a carpet in this room. Woolen car- 0tj6ctionto

pets absorb odors, and, if anything happens to be carpet in

spilled on them, are more difficult to clean than dining

room.

is the bare floor, or a rug which may be carried out and aired with ease. On
the other hand, noiseless service is more difficult on the polished floor, and
there is danger of accidents from slipping. Two or three breadths of fine
Japanese matting, sewed together to make a square, and the ends bound, make a
very satisfactory rug for the center of the dining-room. Whether the floor is
carpeted or polished, it should be brushed each morning, ing-room" The room
must be thoroughly aired and dusted should be each day. Once a week there
should be a thor- eieaned. ough cleaning of this room as directed in "General
Rule for Cleaning a Room." In this general cleaning the closets, sideboards,
shelves, etc., should have special care. The table should be rubbed free from
spots, and be oiled or waxed, as the case may be. All spots on wood must be
wiped off and the windows washed.

In addition to the thorough airing in the morning, the dining-room should be
aired for a short time after each meal, even in the coldest weather.

CARE OF TABLEWARE

Silver.—If washed in plenty of soap and hot water and rubbed dry with clean,
soft towels each time it is used, the silver will not often require cleaning.

To clean the silver, first wash it in hot suds, and wipe it. Cover a table or a
large tray with thick paper. Have fine French whiting which has been sifted.
Put a portion of this whiting in a saucer, and wet it with diluted alcohol or
ammonia. With a soft cloth apply this mixture and

deaaingf rub on the silver- Spread on the paper to dry.

When all is finished rub the whiting off the silver with a soft, clean cloth;
then polish with chamois. A soft brush will be required for grooves and chased
work.

This cleaning with whiting should not be necessary of tener than once a month,
except where an article is tarnished by eggs or some such substance, in which
case clean tarnishing. with whiting. If the silver tarnishes quickly there must
be some gases in the house; therefore gaspipes and drain-pipes should be
inspected.

It must be remembered that constant rubbing wears away the silver, and that any
substance that will clean a tarnished metal without much friction will probably
attack

Injurious th{j metal alg0> treatment

of silver. Silver should be kept by itself; hard substances,

like steel knives, scratch it.

The handles of the knives should not be allowed to go into

the dish-pan; they should be held in the dry left hand while

the blades are washed with a cloth in the right hand.

Care of Spots may be removed and the polished surface

ivory-han- restored to ivory handles by rubbing with powdered

died pumice-stone and water. This means a good deal knives. & of hard rubbing,
if done by hand.

Glass.—There is a great diversity of opinion as to the best methods of washing
glass. Cold water answers very well for articles that are not much soiled and
have had no oily substance near them. Ammonia or soda in the water cleanses the
glass readily and gives a luster. Soapy water also cleans the glass easily.
When glass is washed in cold water it should drain until nearly dry. It must
then be polished with a clean, soft towel. It is more difficult to wash in cold
water, and it takes longer to polish the glass.

Glass that has been washed in warm water with either soda, ammonia, or soap
should be wiped at once.

A soft brush is required for cleaning cut glass. A clean towel should be spread
on a tray, and each piece, Care of as it is wiped, should be placed on this.
ont 8lass.

This precaution is particularly necessary with dishes that are deeply cut at
the bottom. When placed on polished wood the moisture produces a white mark.
Fine sawdust is very good for cut glass; it absorbs the sa^us°for moisture from
those parts that cannot be reached cut glass, with the cloth. After wiping the
glass, bury it in a bed of sawdust, and let it remain half an hour or more.
When the glass is removed from the sawdust, brush it with a soft brush, and
polish with a soft cloth.

A word of caution must be said here. The sawdust should come from a
non-resinous wood, such as box or basswood; it must be fine, and free from any
hard substance. If sawdust from pine or any resinous wood is used, the resin
will stick to the glass, and it will be found most difficult to remove. The
sawdust should be spread out to dry after having been used; in this way it may
be employed a number of times.

One thing must always be remembered: to scratch glass is to weaken that part,
so that a little extra heat or cold, or a slight jar, will cause a break at
that point. A grain of sand at the bottom of the dish-pan, or on °sf the
dish-cloth, may make this little scratch which on glass, will split your
beautiful dish in twain.

China.—The dishes should be scraped clean, and then rinsed off with clear
water. Wash them in soapy water, rinse in clear hot water, and drain and wipe
dry.

Do not place one dish upon another as they Mustnotbe are wiped. Spread them out
to cool off, then p^°^p°°e put them together. Piling them together while
another, warm is apt to crack the glaze.

Put only a few dishes in the pan at a time. Do not use much soap on gilt china.

Use ve Before beginning to wash dishes, have them all little soap sorted and
put in groups, keeping those of the

chiM* same kind together.

Wash, rinse, and wipe one group before beginning another.

In wiping dishes the hands should not come in contact with the dish. Hold the
dish in the left hand,, having the towel How dish between hand and dish. Never
wipe with a towel and towel that has become wet.

Shheld1)6 Glass, silver, and china should present a brilliant surface when the
wiping is finished. This can only be done by washing them very clean, and
wiping thoroughly with a soft, clean towel.

The towels should be washed, rinsed, and hung out to dry after the dishes are
finished.

Pewter, Britannia, and block-tinware are often used on the table in the form of
tea- and coffee-pots, dish-covers, and Care of chafing-dishes. These can be
polished with powpewter, dered rottenstone and oil, or oil and whiting, or
Britannia, in the same way that silver is polished. ^ware!" Wash the article
first in hot soap and water, and wipe dry. Dampen a cloth with sweet-oil, and
rub it over the article to be polished. Put rottenstone or whiting on a piece
of soft, dry flannel, and rub over the oiled surface. Then polish with dry
whiting and chamois.

Steel knives are polished with soft soap, Bristol brick, and a large cork.

Wash the knives in soap and water, and wipe dry. Have a smooth board on which
rests the blade of the knife perMethod of fec% Dip the cork in the soap, then
in the ofpoiishing powdered brick, and rub the steel until all stains are
removed. Then polish off with dry powdered brick, and wipe with a soft cloth.

To keep steel from rusting, cover with sweet-oil or mutton tallow, and wrap in
soft paper.

To remove rust, put oil and quicklime on the To remove rusted article. After
several days rub with oil rugt" and rottenstone or Bristol brick.

CARE OF KITCHEN AND PANTRIES

The kitchen and pantries should be well lighted and aired. Nothing that will
hold odors, such as woolen carpets or draperies, should form a part of the
furnishing of any of these rooms. The woodwork ventilashould be of natural
wood, varnished or oiled, and t*011, u?nt, the walls should be painted or
covered with a ms * paper that may be washed.

The floors in this part of the house are something of a problem. White boards
are exceedingly attractive when in good condition, but they require infinite
care. A Fioors of hard-wood floor, properly oiled, is quite satisfac- kitchen
tory; so is a well-painted and -varnished floor, M^pmiOil-cloth makes a clean
and pleasing covering, and one that is easily kept clean. I should never advise
its use, however, as it is cold for the feet. Linoleum is a most satisfactory
floor-covering. It may be cleaned with ease, it is soft, warm, and elastic, and
wears well.

Tables and shelves, like the floors, when in white wood and kept in good
condition are a delight to the eye; but to maintain them in this state means
much work. Painted or varnished shelves are clean, and may be kept so ^dota!**
with little trouble. A covering of white enameled cloth on the shelves and
kitchen tables looks particularly well, and the work of taking care of it is
very light. These coverings should be laid on smoothly and held in place with
small tacks. Heat destroys the enamel, therefore hot dishes must not be placed
directly on these covers.

The daily care of kitchen and pantries consists of sweeping and dusting, wiping
or washing of shelves, tables, and Daily care noors, an(* *ne cleaning of the
sink and range, of kitchen etc.

and pan- Strong soaps and alkalis should not be used on paint or varnishes.
They soften and remove the dirt quickly, but they also soften and remove the
paint and varnish.

The varnished or oiled woodwork in the kitchen, pantries, back halls, etc., may
be kept clean by wiping it with a Care of nannel cloth wrung out of hot water,
and then varnished rubbing smooth and dry with a dry cloth. Fingerwoodwork
marks may °e removed by rubbing them with wet whiting; the whiting should then
be wiped off and the surface wiped dry. Painted walls may be kept clean in the
same way.

CARE OF THE FLOORS

A hard-wood floor, if properly oiled, is quite satisfactory; but if it is badly
done it is a constant source of annoyance. Oiled floors ^ne oiling of the
floors in the back part of the

house, as a general rule, must be done in the evening, after the work of the
day is finished. This oiling is sometimes done by a member of the family, but
quite as often a painter is employed who is accustomed to that kind of work.
Whoever does the oiling, there are three things upon which success largely
depends: First, there should be no floating dust in the room, and the floor
must be absolutely clean. Second, the oil must be of the right kind and in the
proper condition. Third, the oil must be rubbed into the boards thoroughly, so
as to leave a perfectly smooth surface.

Boiled linseed-oil dries more quickly than the linseed-oil. raw ^ *s we^ to a
little turpentine, as it

will make the oil less sticky. It must be remembered that with the oiled floor,
as with all surfaces, the more highly polished it is, the longer it will keep
clean. Therefore it should be rubbed with a dry flannel once or twice a

The daily care of the oiled floor consists of Daily care sweeping it with a
hair brush, and, if there are floors, any soiled spots, of wiping them off with
a flannel cloth wrung out of hot water. If this does not remove all the dirt, a
little soap may be rubbed on the cloth.

Once a week wipe the floor with a damp cloth, using soap

when it is necessary; wipe very dry, and then go all over the

floor with a cloth made damp with kerosene or

boiled oil and turpentine. This should be rubbed Trfatment

of floor once

m thoroughly, and the floor should not be walked a week, on, if it is possible
to avoid it, for an hour or more. The windows should be left open, that the
odor of the oil may pass off. Cover an old brush with a woolen cloth, and rub
the floor; it will take a fine polish.

See " Care of Polished Floors," for method of oiling floors.

The painted or varnished floors in the back part of the house are usually
ruined with soap and water and scrubbingbrushes. Strong soaps, soda or ammonia,
and a scrubbing-brush, in the hands of a vigorous woman, ^^^e" will remove the
greater part of the paint or var- floors, nish from a floor in a short time. As
little water, soap, or alkalis as possible should be used on these surfaces.

Sweep the floor, and wipe off the dust with a damp cloth. If this will not
remove all the dirt, use a woolen cloth wrung out of hot water. If the spot is
very dirty it may be necessary to put a little soap on the cloth. Rub trjatment
hard with the woolen cloth, but never use a scrub- of painted bing-brush. Once
a week, after having swept and "j^JJ wiped the floor clean, go over it with a
cloth damp- floors, ened with one part boiled oil and one part turpentine, or
kerosene may be used instead. The work of caring for a floor in this manner is
much less than when a great deal of water and soap is used; and, moreover, the
floor is in a sanitary condition, because the boards are dry and clean.

On a farm where milk is abundant the floor may be washed with hot milk and
water; it must be wiped perfectly dry after this treatment.

Linoleum. Oil-cloth and linoleum may be treated in the same manner as a painted
or varnished floor. For cleaning white boards, whether they are in floors or
tables, there is nothing better than fine sand and water that is warm but not
hot. The boards should be scoured WWte with sand and water, then washed with
clear warm

bofl*Tu. floors

and tables, water, and thoroughly dried. The rubbing should always be in the
direction of the grain of the wood. This treatment will keep boards beautifully
white. Great care must be taken to wash every particle of sand from the tables,
and to see that none gets into the sink or dish-pan. A scratch from a grain of
sand might be the trifle that would

cause the breakage of a piece of fine glass. offfrease- Grease-spots on tables
and floors may be treated spots. in several ways. (See "Stains on Wood.")

CARE OP KITCHEN UTENSILS

On the proper care of the kitchen utensils depends to a great degree the
healthfulness and success of the cooked food. No matter how many utensils there
are, tanceof or ^ow perfect they may be, unless they are kept thorough- in good
condition they will notdo satisfactory work. of'kitchen9 ^.saucepan from which
the enamel has been chipped, utensils, or which has been burned black and
rough, will spoil the flavor and appearance of any preparation cooked in it; a
tin dish which has rusted, or from which the tin has been scratched, will also
ruin the flavor and appearance of food, and so it is through the whole
category. Systematic thoroughness, then, in the care of the kitchen utensils is
absolutely necessary for their preservation and for perfection in cooking. With
the proper appliances this is not a difficult task.

Plenty of hot water, soap, and towels, and willing hands are all that are
needed to keep these articles in good order. Soiled utensils should not be left
standing for the particles of food to harden on them; nor should a TM^^0' knife
or spoon be used to scrape off these adher- uteSSf ing particles; such
treatment soon destroys the enamel or plate. If a substance clings stubbornly
to a dish or stew-pan, use the dish-cloth of wire rings. This cleans quickly,
without scratching or otherwise injuring the surface.

As soon as each dish or stew-pan is emptied of its contents it should be filled
with water; when dish-washing time comes, it will be found that all clinging
particles are thoroughly soaked and may be rinsed off before the dishes are put
into the pan of hot, soapy water.

There should be no stint in towels, soap, and hot water. Towels for silver,
glass, and china should be of linen. A loosely woven cheap linen crash makes
the best toweling for the cooking utensils. A closely To^^and woven, stiff
towel is most difficult to wash, and cloths, it must be half worn before it
will wipe articles dry. There should be long cotton and linen towels in reach
for handling hot pots and pans. A good length for these towels is forty-two
inches. Then, there should be soft towels for the hands, a mixture of cotton
and linen being better than all linen for this purpose. Two linen
dishcloths,—which, by the way, should not be used after they have become so
worn that they will leave lint on the dishes, —a wire dish-cloth, and a bunch
of wooden skewers are indispensable.

All kitchen utensils should be washed and wiped as carefully as the dining-room
china.

Here is a good rule for the daily care of utensils. We will take it for granted
that pots, pans, bowls, ejc, were put to soak as soon as they were emptied of
their ruieforthe contents. Rinse off all particles of food that care of cling
to the utensils. If there are spots where uterails ^e substance has stuck or
burned on, rub with the wire dish-cloth until all traces are removed; never
scrape with a knife or spoon. When all the dishes are cleaned in this way, fill
a dish-pan half full of hot water, well soaped; nearly fill a second pan with
clear hot water. Begin by washing the earthenware in the hot suds, rinse in the
hot water, drain, and then wipe with clean, dry towels. Follow this method with
the tins and granite-ware, then with the ironware, changing the waters, of
course, as they become soiled or cool. Wash the outside and bottom of the
utensils as carefully as the inside.

Any utensil in which frying has been done must be wiped with soft newspaper to
remove all the grease before it is put in the water for washing. Use plenty of
soap and very hot water when washing greasy cooking utensils. If frying-pans or
kettles become rough and dark they can be made smooth and bright by scouring
with soap and wood-ashes.

Tin and iron should be wiped while still hot.

All grooves in cooking utensils may be cleaned with a wooden skewer.

In thinking over the care of the kitchen, pantries, utensils, etc., it seems
almost more important to speak of the things one should not do, rather than the
things one should do; for a great deal of damage can be done in a short time,
and the task of repairing it is discouraging and sometimes almost hopeless.
ironware New iron is one of the most difficult materials improves one has to
deal with in kitchen utensils; as it m nS9' grows older, and the surface
becomes more smooth with use and proper treatment, it is comparatively easy to
keep it in good condition.

It should be borne in mind that acids tend to cause rust on iron, while soda
and fats make the surface Effect of smooth and prevent rust. Moisture also
causes acids, soda, rust. "*fats.

The inside of new iron utensils should be coated with fresh mutton tallow and
allowed to stand a few days. At the end of that time they should be heated
gradually until the fat melts, and then washed in hot water in ^^^eaX which
washing-soda has been dissolved. One utensils, tablespoonful of the soda should
be used with every two quarts of water. A mop should be used for this washing,
as the strong solution of soda would injure the hands. Rinse the utensils in
hot water, and wipe them dry with a clean, dry, coarse towel, rubbing very
hard. If food or cloths are darkened by the utensil after this treatment, it
should be scoured with soap and sand, after which it will give very little, if
any, trouble.

The treatment of ironware, after this, is very simple. As soon as the utensil
has been emptied, when food has been cooked in it, fill it with water, and let
it rest on the back of the range until you are ready to wash it. All particles
of food adhering to it will be softened by this means, and may be washed off
before the utensil is put in the dish-pan. Have hot soapy water in readiness;
put one utensil at a time into the pan, and wash the inside and outside with
equal care. When all the saucepans, kettles, etc., have been washed in this
manner, rinse them in hot water, drain them, and wipe first with the
dish-clo'th, and then with a dry crash towel, rubbing hard.

This is the only treatment that will insure a perfect condition of iron- or
steelware. Scouring the inside of iron or steel articles with any kind of sand
soap or mineral soap makes the surface smooth and bright. Frying-pans,
griddles, omelet-pans, etc., may be kept in perfect condition by this means.

TINWARE

Wash tinware in hot soapy water, rinse it in clear hot water, and wipe dry with
a dry dish-towel. Articles made of tin should not be put on the range to dry,
as S°°tinsf °f tnev are apt to be darkened or melted by this treatment. When
they need cleaning, wash them thoroughly in strong soap-suds, and clean them
with whiting or sand soap; then wash, rinse, and wipe dry. Sand should never be
used for scouring tins, as it cuts through the soft metal, leaving bare tiny
lines of iron that soon make their presence known by fine streaks of rust.

There are several cleaning-materials that are free from hard, cutting particles
which may be safely used on tins, enamels, etc., among others being sifted
whiting, kaolin, sifted wood-ashes, that may be taken from the flues under the
oven or from the dust-flue in the furnace. There is a soap on the market, which
is largely composed of kaolin, that is excellent for cleaning paint, tins,
windows, etc., since it removes all dirt without scratching the surface.

WOODENWARE

Wash all woodenware in hot soapy water, rinse in clear hot water, and wipe with
a dry towel. Woodenware may be put in the sun to dry, but never near the fire,
as great dry heat cracks the wood. Pastry-boards, meat-bowls, and other bowls
may be scoured as directed for white tables. Wash Wooden bowls in which fat
meats and vegetawooden- ^es have been chopped sometimes retain the flavor

Ware Willi

soda to re- and odor of the substance that has been m themn move odor. These
may be removed by soaking the bowl in hot soda-water, using one teaspoonful of
soda to one quart of water.

Utensils in which fish or other food that imparts an odor or flavor has been
cooked should be boiled for a short time in soda-water. This can be done by
putting a quart To deodorof water and a small piece of washing-soda, ora w
cooking teaspoonful of baking-soda, into the saucepan or n n • kettle, and
placing it on the range where the water will boil.

Wood-ashes are excellent for cleaning and deodorizing iron and tin utensils.
Put a gill of wood-ashes and a pint of water in the stew-pan or kettle, and
place it on the fire where it will simmer for half an hour. Let the mixture
cool partly, then scour the utensil with it, using a coarse cloth, or a coil of
grass or hay if one lives in the country and has it at hand.

THE TEA-KETTLE

The tea-kettle is one of the problems of the kitchen. It is difficult to keep
it free from rust. If it could always be emptied and wiped dry when not needed,
this might be prevented; but hot water is constantly in demand, and the
teakettle seems to be the place where it should be found.

When water cools slowly in a covered vessel, globules of steam gather on the
cover, sides, and bottom. Tiny spots of rust will soon appear, which grow as
time goes on, until finally the whole interior surface is cov- CaTMst°f ered.
This is what happens in the tea-kettle from day to day. The remedy is to empty
the kettle while it is hot, rinse it out, and wipe it dry.

In any case, the tea-kettle should be washed out every day; for even clean
water will be found to leave a deposit. This washing out had better be done in
the evening, when the work for the day is over; it will insure tea-kettto?
thorough drying, and will do a great deal toward preserving the tea-kettle in
good condition. There are teakettles that are lined with white enamel, which
can easily be kept in good condition.

TEA-POTS AND COFFEE-POTS

Tea-pots and coffee-pots require the most thorough cleaning daily. They should
be freed from grounds or leaves, rinsed in cold water, and washed with clear
hot water. They should then be scalded with boiling water, wiped dry, and
placed where they may be thoroughly aired.

CARE OF THE REFRIGERATOR

The refrigerator is nearly always on the same floor with the kitchen. It should
be placed where it may be well lighted

and aired, and on no consideration should the Situation, waste-pipe of the
refrigerator be connected with

the drain-pipe of the house. A pan under the refrigerator is a care, and it is
often most annoyingjif forgotten, but with all this it is not a menace to the
health of the family, as might be the risk of sewer-gas coming through the pipe
into the refrigerator.

Once a week the refrigerator should have a thorough cleaning and airing.
Everything should be taken from

the interior. The shelves and racks should be dearingf washed in hot suds,
rinsed in hot soda-water, and

finally in clean hot water. They should then be wiped dry, and, if possible,
placed in the open air to become perfectly dry; should the weather be stormy,
place them near the fire to dry. See that there is not a particle of anything
left in a groove or mesh. Next wash the interior of the refrigerator, first
with soap and water, then with mild soda-water, and finally with clean hot
water, using a wooden skewer to clean all the grooves and ledges.

The ice-chamber needs special attention. See that the waste-pipe is clean by
running a flexible wire through it. If a cloth is put on the flexible wire the
pipe may be more thoroughly cleaned. Pour hot soda-water and then boiling water
through this pipe. Then wipe every part of the refrigerator perfectly dry, and
let it remain open ^Jjjjjjf for an hour or more. pipe.

Caution: It must be remembered that watersoaked wood, when kept from light and
air, will scent and flavor any food that is placed in a closed chamber with it.
The refrigerator should be so lined that not a particle of moisture can reach
the wood used in its construction. Should the lining be cracked or broken, it
must be repaired at once. It will be infinitely better to live without a
refrigerator than to use one that is not in perfect condition.

THE SINK

The kitchen sink should be absolutely sweet at all times. To keep it in this
condition requires systematic watchfulness.

When the dish-washing is finished, and the dish-towels and dish-cloths have
been washed, half fill the dish-pan with hot soapy water. Wash every part of
the sink with this, not missing a ledge or a groove. Wipe all the tiling or
woodwork above and around the sink. Pour this water into the sink, and fill the
pan with clear hot water. Rinse the sink, dish-pan, and cloth in this, wipe the
pan, and hang the cloth out to dry. Let several gallons of clear cold water run
through the pipes. If the sink is iron, and will not be used for several hours,
wipe it dry after the cold water has been poured in.

TO CLEAN AN IRON SINK

Sometimes an iron sink gets into a rough, rusty condition which no ordinary
treatment can remedy. To Mmove Quicklime, combined with some fatty substance,
rust from such as oil, lard, mutton or beef fat, will remove 8"^ rust and give
a smooth, clean surface to the iron.

Rub soft mutton fat on the bottom and sides of the sink, then cover with
powdered quicklime, and let the application stand overnight. In the morning
wash off the lime with plenty of water and an old sink-broom; then wash the
sink with a hot solution of sal-soda, using a cloth attached to the sink-broom
for this purpose. Unless the rust is Bpa?Srinf ver^ deep, *ne sink will be
perfectly free from it,

lime. and smooth and clean. If, however, any rust remains, apply the fat and
lime a second time. Use great care not to spatter the lime on surrounding
objects, as it will take the color out of fabrics and mar painted or varnished
surfaces.

Rusted iron or steel of any kind may be cleaned in the same manner.

The iron sink should be greased once in a while overnight with mutton fat, and
have a thorough washing the next morning with the hot solution of soda, carrion
Sal-soda is also very good for cleaning iron and

sink. steel utensils.

CARE OF CELLAR

In no part of the house is there greater necessity for constant watchfulness
than in the cellar. It should be thoroughly cleaned twice a year. In these two
yearly cleanings the method of proceeding is this:

1. Open the windows. Sweep walls, ceiling, and

dSSL? floor in one part of the roomcellar. 2. Brush all light, movable
articles, and place

in the cleaned part of cellar.

3. Sweep walls, ceiling, and floor of remainder of the room, and brush
thoroughly all stationary articles.

4. Let dust settle, and sweep and dust a second time.

5. Wash windows, tables, closets, etc. If whitewashing is to be done, this is
the time to do it.

6. Return articles to their proper places, and put screens in windows.

If there are coal- and wood-bins in the cellar, this is the time to clean them,
and also the furnace, if there is one. The cellar should be inspected once a
week.

In summer the windows should be opened every night and kept closed during the
daytime. The reason for opening the windows at night and closing them in the
daytime ^j^,^. is this: The outdoor air in the daytime is much dowB warmer than
in the cellar. This warm, moist- «i«>nM*e laden air enters the cooler
atmosphere of the cellar, and the moisture condenses and rests on all surfaces,
rusting metallic ones, and making the cellar damp and warm. By opening the
windows at night and closing them in the daytime the cellar is kept dry, cool,
and pure.

In winter, mild days should be selected for airing this part of the house.

If the house is closed for the summer, it is best, when it can be done with
safety, to leave two windows open on opposite sides of the cellar, that there
may be a strong current of air blowing through all the time.

Two sets of screens are necessary for the cellar The screens windows: strong
gratings, as a protection against cellar! thieves, and fine wire netting, as a
protection against flies and small animals. If all this is done, and no animal
or vegetable substance allowed to decay here, one may feel that the house is on
a healthy foundation.

HOUSEHOLD REFUSE

What to do with the household refuse is often a most perplexing question,
particularly when one lives in a small town or country place. In large cities
the Refuse.01 government disposes of the refuse. But even when the city makes a
final disposition of the garbage, it does not relieve the housekeeper from the
responsibility of seeing that it is kept in proper receptacles and removed at
the proper time. No matter where one lives, it is possible to control this
matter so that it shall not be a menace to the health or offensive to the
sight.

Everything feasible should be done to dispose of the household refuse in the
shortest period possible.

There are two kinds of refuse which the housekeeper has to deal with. One
belongs especially to the kitchen—vegetable and animal refuse; the other is the
ashes, sweepings, etc., from all parts of the house.

There are two modes of disposing of the kitchen garbage. The first and most
sanitary is by burning; but this is not Two modes always possible, particularly
in large familieswhere of dispos- many fresh vegetables and fruits are used.
The "^bagf"" second method is to place the garbage in a tub, which is emptied
two or three times a week, as the case may be. This tub must be washed each
time it is emptied, and once a week in warm weather it should be rinsed with
carbolic water—a teaspoonful of carbolic acid to a pint of water.

If one lives on a farm, of course all the refuse food is utilized while yet
fresh for the animals on the place. But when one lives in the country, and yet
not on a

"refuse inf farm, some otner way must oe found to dispose of oountry thi3
refuse. If it must be kept on the grounds, the Psmall°r best way is to have a
garbage-heap as far from towns. the house as possible. Sprinkle it generously
each day with lime. Ashes and other refuse should be put in barrels, never in
bins or heaped on the ground, either in the cellar or in the yard. In barrels
they require but one handling, and can be taken from the premises without much
trouble. They should be removed as often as possible. Ashes dry out the
barrels, it is true, but they may be prevented from dropping to pieces by
rinsing in water.

The back yards, outbuildings, etc., should have the same care as the house.
Everything must be kept in order, no damp or decaying substance left in dark or
outof-the-way places. gTM

There is now on the market a most valuable in- back yards

vention, which can be attached to the ranee, and in maBt have

same cai6

which all the kitchen refuse can be carbonized. as houses.

CARE OP THE PLUMBING

The more plumbing there is in the house, the greater the responsibility of
those in charge. If, however, it is the best of its kind, with an abundant
supply of water for flushing, and each person understands and does his or her
duty, there need be no trouble.

Simply letting dirty water or other substances discharge into the pipes is not
enough. There should be such a generous rush of water following that every
particle of contaminating substance shall be carried at once from the pipes
into the sewer.

Nothing is more common than to find that this is neglected, even by
well-educated people who should know better. It would not be a bad plan to have
a printed notice ^ need in the closet of every private house, as is often of
having the case in public places, to the effect that the pypted

r r * notices in

valve from the flushing-tank should be kept open closets in

for a certain period of time, that at least two or private

... houses, three gallons of water may flow mto the pipes.

When set bow's are used, it is not enough that the soiled water is allowed to
pass into the pipes; it should be followed by some clean water.

Kitchen and other sinks where dishes are washed, and where greasy water and the
water in which strong-odored vegetables have been cooked are poured down the
Thorough pipes, should have a thorough flushing with hot wa- fl^^fnof ter,
followed by cold water, two or three times a day. sink.

Whenever the water in which cabbages, cauliflower, turnips, beans, etc., have
been cooked is poured into the drain, it should be followed immediately by
plenty of cold water. Should one live in the country, where water for flushing
is not plentiful, such refuse water had better be poured on the earth, some
distance from the house.

Liquid grease will chill as it reaches the pipes, and it will often cling to
the sides. Other substances attach themselves to the particles of grease, and,
naturally, if grease will nothing be done to wash the pipes clean, these
ouTttouUe suD8tances decompose and send their vile odors if it is through all
the pipes and into every part of the r'mainaiid nouse. is not an uncommon thing
to find this cling to odor in houses where the plumbing is apparently rides of
0f the best. It is beyond the plumber,s art to plpe' prevent this, but it is
within the power of every housekeeper to avoid it. Once knowing what causes the
A strong trouble, the remedy is simple. A strong hot sotionwm lution of
washing-soda will dissolve the grease, dissolve and if enough hot water follow
to carry it from grease. the pipes the trouble is removed. Sometimes in large
establishments like boarding-houses and hotels the amount of grease from
dish-washing is quite large, and, there being so many people at the work, the
responsibility is not placed on any one, and the accumulation of grease and
other putrefying substances is often so great that a more caustic agent than
common washing-soda is required. In that case pour dissolved potash into the
pipes. _ The kitchen and pantry sinks should be treated

treat wlth a hot solution of washing-soda at least once kitchen a week. One
should not wait until an odor is S1* weekTM perceptible, but attend to this
regularly, the same as washing or any other cleaning process. All the plumbing
is better for being rinsed with the hot solution of soda, but once a month
answers for all parts of

In cue of illness in house use disinfectants freely.

How to protect the pipes when

the house, except the sink, provided the plumbing is in good condition and
there is no illness in the house. In case of illness it is well to use a
disinfectant every few days. If the disease be contagious the disinfectant
should be used every day for the protection not only of the family, but of the
whole neighborhood.

When using chemicals in bath-room and set bowls the metal around the pipes
should be protected. This is easily done. Have a funnel which fits into the
opening in the pipe, and through this pour the chemicals. Where the openings of
the pipes are covered with strainers, the point of the funnel can be flattened
to fit the long, narrow openings.

When strong acids or very caustic alkalis are used to disinfect the plumbing,
they should be followed, after a short interval, with a thorough flushing of
the pipes.

Washing-soda is not injurious to the metal pipes; but when the caustic potash
is used, it is best to flush thoroughly in about half an hour.

To prepare the washing-soda for the pipes, cover one pint of soda with three
gallons of boiling water, and let it remain on the fire until all the soda is
dis- How tQ solved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes. prepare Use two
quarts for each of the sinks; the "da for the

pip OS.

remainder to be poured into pipes of the set bowls, bath-tubs, closets,
laundry-tubs, etc.

The sink-pipes should be made warm by pouring boiling water into them before
pouring in the hot solution.

If there should be a stoppage of the pipes by grease, make the solution four
times as strong.

To prepare the potash for the sinks, open a How to pound box, and put the
potash in a large pitcher; p^ashfor then add two quarts of cold water, and stir
with the sinks.

chemicals.

Thorough flushing of the pipes must follow the use of strong acids or alkalis.

a wooden stick until nearly all the crystals are dissolved. Have the pipes
warmed with boiling water, and pour in the solution of potash. When using
potash, protect the hands with old gloves; turn the contents from the box very
carefully and gently; keep the mouth closed; be careful not to drop any of the
liquid on your clothing or floor, as it will destroy color, fabric, paint, or
varnish.

There are many chemicals that both disinfect and deodorize the plumbing; most
of them, however, replace the obnoxious odor by one of their own. This is the
nuMt disin- case ^th carbolic acid, which is a reliable disin

feotants an f ectant, but which many persons dislike to use be

objectionto their use.

objecuonto cauge 0f ^jje strong and lasting odor. When one

realizes how clean and effective this chemical is, the odor will not be a great
barrier to its use.

Potassium permanganate is a good disinfectant and deodorizer. It is odorless,
and perfectly safe to use anywhere.

It has been demonstrated that disinfectants must come in contact with the
organism that produces putrefaction or Disinfeo disease in order to kill it;
therefore, whatever tants must substance may be used, it should be applied in
come in such a manner that it shall reach all the sides of with the the pipes.
To do this the solution must be poured cause of into the pipes in such a
quantity that they shall order to re- ^e for at least an instant. Make about a
move it. five-per-cent. solution of carbolic acid by adding Solution ten ounces
of the crystals or liquid carbolic acid must be to about three gallons of
water. This answers for sufficient basins, bath-tubs, etc.; but the water which
rests quantity to m the bov/\ of the water-closet dilutes whatever reach all
substance may be poured into it; therefore this 8^pipes!116 water must have a
stronger dose of the disinfectant. Pour a little carbolic acid into this bowl,
and then pour in about two quarts of the carbolic-acid solution. Do not open
the valve of the flushing-tank, as that would dilute and carry the disinfectant
away before it had time to do its work. Pour the solution into the pipe
quickly, that there may be volume enough of the liquid to touch all sides as it
flows down. Do not flush for twenty or thirty minutes; then flush thoroughly.

Potassium permanganate is used in the same manner. Dissolve half a pound in
four gallons of water. It will give a rich purple solution. A few of the
crystals may be dropped into the pipes at any time.

There are many disinfecting articles on the market; some of them are very good.
Directions as to how they shall be used come with them.

Copperas is excellent to use in drains and closets. The solution should be
strong, about three pounds to two gallons of water.

Careless and ignorant people are the cause of a ^"j1^" great deal of trouble
with plumbing. They throw nsnal cause all sorts of things into the bowls and
closets. It ot trouble is important that each person should be made to pimping,
see the necessity of treating these conveniences <jreatest with the greatest
care and respect. But the enemy of greatest enemy of the pipes is any fibrous
sub- aepipe8, stance that can wind itself around joints and traps. Hair and
lint are worse than any other substance in clogging pipes.

Well-worn linty cloths should not be used for Avoid the cleaning in a house
where there is plumbing. You or i^ty will do the sick and yourself a favor by
sending dj>Jfr»fa; all the worn white cotton and linen where there is pu^osef.
illness, rather than keeping it for cleaning purposes. Dish-cloths, as soon as
they become so worn that they give off fine particles of lint, should be
destroyed; so should floor- and all other cleaning-cloths.

7

CHAPTER V

THE LAUNDRY

Soaking the clothes. Washing the clothes. Summary of the work. To prepare
bluing-water. Flannels. Colored flannels. Summary. Blankets. Colored-cotton
articles. Washing with starch. To make the starch. Silk undergarments. Washing
with kerosene. Lace curtains. Starching. To make gum-arabic starch. Stiffening
with gelatin. Boiled starch. Raw starch. Hanging clothes out to dry. Folding
clothes for ironing. Preparing for ironing. Folding the clothes after ironing.
A few words about the clothes-wringer. The laundry. How to dissolve soap. How
to clean irons.

The laundry, and all connected with it, is one of the branches of domestic
economy which we keep as much as Need of possible out of sight, and, indeed,
out of mind. Yet study in so much of the health, comfort, and decency of caring
for life depend upon the cleansing of the personal and household linen that
this subject should be studied carefully and intelligently by each housekeeper.
It is very important that the fabrics should be washed in such a manner that
all dirt shall be removed without too great a strain upon the tissue of the
fabric. The best authorities are divided as to the most effectual means of
doing this Hard rubbing wears the fabric; chemicals loosen the dirt and thus
relieve the cloth from so much or so hard rubbing; but at the same time the
chemical does not stop with the dirt—it attacks the fabric also. It has seemed
to me that an intelligent use of chemicals to aid in loosening the dirt is
better than hard rubbing alone; but if the chemical is not used with the
greatest care and intelligence, the use of soap and water and extra rub- ^ence"
bing must be relied upon. One great trouble in needed if

using a chemical in the laundry, as elsewhere in are mei the house, is that it
is expected to do all the work, instead of its being looked upon simply as an
aid. The chemical most commonly used in the laundry is sal-soda. If the water
is hard, this or some other substance is almost a necessity.

When using soda, ammonia, borax, Javelle water, etc., it must always be borne
in mind that they must not be used in such quantities that they do away with
the work of rubbing. The rubbing will be less hard, and ^m^etc., may be done in
less time; that is all. The chemical loosens the dirt, so that it yields
quickly to sopping, squeezing, or rubbing. All chemicals should be dissolved 
and then mixed with the water.

All clothing should be rinsed very thoroughly. Careful When a chemical is
employed the necessity for j^JSwary. thorough rinsing is even more important
than when only soap and water are used. A chemical should be thoroughly
dissolved and mixed with the water before the clothes are put in the tubs.

SOAKING THE CLOTHES

Good laundresses are not all of the same opinion as to the desirability of
soaking the clothes several hours before washing. It seems to me reasonable
that the dirt should yield more readily when the fabric has been soaked in
tepid suds, or even in cold water, for several hours; and certainly when an
alkali is used in this manner it does its best work, because it has time to act
upon the dirt, which is removed

with ease when the articles are put into fresh suds and rubbed by the
laundress.

Monday is the accepted wash-day among most housekeepers, but there are many who
take Monday for preparing for the washing. This is a matter which every
housekeeper must decide for herself. M1 ar- As far as possible, the clothing
should be mended mentB before it is put in the wash; a rip or tear may inshouid
be crease ten times the original size in the process

mended ...... ...

before of washing, drying, and ironing.

washing. Every article should be looked over for stains, stains and if there
are any that soap and water will not reinoved! remove, or, worse, will set,
they should be taken out at once, if possible. Next, the clothing should be
sorted, the finest and cleanest being put in a heap by themselves, the most
soiled and the medium soiled in other heaps.

Cut laundry soap in fine shavings, and put it, with boiling

water, on the back of the range, where it will dissolve slowly.

„ . . This should be done an hour or more before it is

How tubs

shall be time to soak the clothes. Fill three tubs half fo/cfothM of teP^
water, add enough of the dissolved soap to make a strong suds, and put the
three heaps of clothes in the suds, having the most soiled pieces in a pile at
the bottom and the cleanest pieces on top. Rub a little soap on the portions of
the personal linen—the neck and sleeve-bands, for example—that are most soiled;
if soda must be used, this is the time for it. Mix the dissolved soda in the
suds before the clothes are put in.

WASHING THE CLOTHES

In the morning wring out the two tubfuls of the cleanest clothes. Wash the
tubs, and fill nearly half full with water as hot as you can bear your hand.
Fill the boiler half full of cold water, and add enough dissolved soap to make
a light suds. Put the cleanest clothes in one of the tubs of hot water, and
wash them, using soap wherever How it is needed. As the clothes are washed turn
clothes them and wring them, then drop them into the SjJjJjJ second tub of
water, and wash them a second time in it, using soap, if there is necessity, as
before. As each piece is wrung from this water, soap it, and drop it into the
cold water in the boiler; when the boiler is full, light the fire, and let the
clothes scald, pressing them down in the water with a wooden stick. If the
boiler is to be placed on the top of the range, put it in place before filling.
If soda is used, put in a tablespoonful of liquid soda (see "Liquid Soda ") to
every three pailfuls of water.

While the first tubful of clothes is scalding, rub out the second in the same
manner, and then continue with the third.

When the first boilerful of clothes is scalded, take them up and put them in a
tubful of cold water, rinse, and then rinse in a tubful of bluing-water; then
hang out to dry. The sun and pure air will give the clothes a whiteness and
sweetness that nothing else can. This is the treatment for all white clothes.

In the whole process of laundering there is Hinting of nothing as important as
thorough rinsing. No fortance. matter what care has been taken with other work,
if the clothes are not thoroughly rinsed they will never have a good color.

SUMMARY OP THE WORK

1. Mend.

2. Remove stains.

3. Sort the clothes.

4. Dissolve soap; make tepid suds in three tubs; put pieces most soiled at
bottom and cleanest on top. Soak overnight.

5. On washing-day wring clothes from soaking-water; fill two tubs with hot
water, add dissolved soap and soda, if used; fill boiler with cold water; wash
clothes out of one water, then in second; soap, and put in boiler. Light fire
under boiler. When clothes are scalded rinse in two or three clean waters, then
in bluing-water; wring dry, and hang in open air to dry. All the white clothes
are to be treated in this manner.

TO PREPARE BLUING-WATER

The water for bluing may be cold or tepid. If liquid blue is used, pour a
little in the water and stir it well. Take some of the water in the hand, and
if it is sky-blue it is dark enough.

The ball-blue is safe and satisfactory. Put the balls in a small flannel bag,
and tie firmly. Fill a bowl with tepid water, and move the blue-bag through the
water until it tome. becomes a deep dark blue; then pour it into the tub. Test
the water to see if it is blue enough. It must be remembered that soft, loosely
woven fabrics absorb the blue much more readily than closely woven stuffs. What
fab- Never let clothes stand in bluing-water, as it will rios absorb make them
streaked. readily ^s eac^ article absorbs a portion of the blue in the water,
those that are put in first will be bluer than those that follow. A good plan
is to blue the water only slightly at first, adding a little of the dissolved
blue as the pieces are rinsed.

FLANNELS

In washing flannels the first care is to prevent them from shrinking and to
keep them soft. They should be washed on a clear bright day, and dried as
quickly as possible.

Shake all lint and dust from the flannels. Prepare three tubs with water as
warm as the hand can bear comfortably. Put enough dissolved soap in one tub to
make a strong suds, and to every three gallons "ashing.1 of water add one
tablespoonful of borax dissolved in a pint of hot water, or instead of the
borax two tablespoonfuls of household ammonia may be used. Put the white
flannels in this suds, and wash them by sopping up and down and squeezing; rub
them as little as possible. Squeeze them from this suds, and wash them in a
second tub of warm water, to which has been added a little dissolved soap. Turn
the garments in this water. If you like a little bluing in the flannels, have a
third water of the same temperature as the other two, make it slightly blue,
and put the washed flannels in it. Then put the flannels through the wringer,
shake them well, and hang in the open air to dry. Before they are quite dry
take them in, fold and roll in a clean cloth, and iron as soon as possible. The
iron should not be very hot, and there should be a great deal of pressure used.

Rubbing flannel thickens and hardens it. Inequality in the temperature of the
water in which flannels are washed and rinsed shrinks them. Never use yellow
soap for washing flannels, because it contains resin, flannel!1 which is bad
for woolens.

If the water is hard, a little dissolved borax or ammonia may be put in the
last water. This will keep the flannels soft. If the state of the weather
interferes with the drying in the open air, hang the flannels in a warm room,
but not too near the fire, heating-pipes, or register, as a high temperature
will harden and shrink them.

The temperature of the water in which flan- Temperanels are washed is hot as
important as that ^ter* each successive tubful through which they are mnstbe
passed should be kept at the same tempera- uniform. ture from the beginning of
the washing of the flannels to the end. The work should be done as quickly as
possible, and only one or two pieces should be wet at a time. As soon as the
flannels are wrung out of the rinsing-water, shake them out and hang them out
to dry. The thicker side should be uppermost. Pin the flannels on the line in
such a manner that they will not be pulled out of shape. D . Loosely knitted or
crocheted articles are likely

loosely to get out of shape if hung up to dry in the ordi

articies nar^ wa^' ^em into shape, and lay them on a piece of cloth,—a piece of
a sheet is good for this,—and fasten them in place with safety-pins. When the
garments are half dry, turn the sheet upside down, that all parts may be
subjected to an equal strain.

COLORED FLANNELS

These are washed in the same way as the white flannels, omitting the borax and
ammonia, except when very hard water has to be used; in that case a little
borax may be put in the water.

In washing blue flannels the color may be revived by acetic acid or vinegar.
Put about a tablespoonful of the acid or a gill of vinegar in the
rinsing-water.

SUMMARY

1. Shake flannels free from lint and dust.

2. Wash in strong suds which contains either borax or ammonia.

3. Rinse in water of the same temperature as the suds.

4. Never rub or wring flannels with the hands, as this twists and hardens the
texture.

5. Dry as quickly as possible, but press before fully dried. Do not use hot 
water with flannels. Use borax with colored flannels, as ammonia changes the
colors.

BLANKETS

Select a clear windy day on which to have the blankets washed. If there are
colored bindings on the blankets, take them off and replace them with white
ones. when and

Examine the blankets to see if there are any how to places that are very much
soiled; these should be wa^e^lan" kept in mind during the washing.

Half fill two tubs with hot water. Pour enough dissolved soap into one tub to
make a very strong suds, and into the second tub pour about half as much soap.

Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of borax in a quart of water, and pour half of
this mixture into each tub.

Shake the blankets well to remove dust and lint. Put them in the first tub, and
sop them up and down until the dirt appears to have been removed. Squeeze the
water from them and put them in the next tub, washing them again in the same
manner.

Now rinse the blankets in a very weak suds, and run them through the wringer.
The screws that tighten the rollers of the wringer must be loosened for thick
blankets. After they have been through the wringer, shake the blankets well,
and hang them out to dry, pinning them in several places so that an undue
strain will not come on any one part. All three waters in which the blankets
are washed must be of the same temperature.

If there are any spots that the sopping and How to repressing do not remove,
spread that part of the movesPots. blanket on a board and rub it with a brush.
This does not twist the fiber, as would the rubbing with the hands or on the
wash-board.

Wash only two blankets at a time. Have fresh water for every pair. As this is
heavy work, one woman should not be required to wash more than two pairs of
blankets in one day. The blankets should be perfectly dry before they are taken
from the lines, and then they should be folded care_ best fully. To press the
blankets, spread a sheet on way to the table and put the folded blankets on it;
draw

Pr6ketslan" s^es of *ne sheet over them so as to cover them completely. Place a
board on the top of the pile, and on it put a heavy weight; let the blankets
remain under this for a day or two. This will press them sufficiently.

COLORED-COTTON ARTICLES

Colored cottons must be washed, dried, and ironed with great care to prevent
their fading and "running."

No alkali or strong alkaline soap should be used on them; for soda, ammonia,
Javelle water, etc., will destroy the color. Whenever it is possible, they
should be washed without soap. Starch of any kind may be substituted for soap.

Water ^e water m which colored cottons are washed should be should never be
hot; it should be merely warm. waTMj.not Soap should not be rubbed on colored
cottons: they should be washed in strong suds made with warm water and
dissolved soap.

These fabrics must be rinsed in two rinsing-waters, and salt should be put in
these waters to prevent the colors from running. If there are blue garments
that have oredWm°ate- become a little faded, put a cupful of vinegar in

rials the last rinsing-water. rinsed1 and Colored materials are starched,
before being

dried. dried, with boiled starch. All colored pieces should be dried as quickly
as possible, and in the shade.

Wash the articles in a strong suds; wring them from this, and drop them into a
tub of cold water in which two tablespoonfuls of salt have been dissolved.

When all have been washed in the suds, rinse them in the first rinsing-water,
and again in a second. Have the starch cold, thin, and strained, and put enough
for one or two pieces in a bowl. Dip each piece in this, wring dry, and hang
out. When the starch gets thin, add some of the fresh When and starch to it
before putting in another piece. Let how to colored articles get perfectly dry.
They should at^t^' be dampened only a short time before being ironed. rics.

WASHING WITH STARCH

Colored garments washed with starch have the texture and appearance of a new
fabric. Any kind of starch may be used. The points to be careful of are that
there shall be starch enough to remove the dirt, that the starch shall be
strained so that there are no lumps, and that in ironing the garment shall be
ironed thoroughly.

The starch may be made from common flour, corn-starch,

fine laundry starch, grated potatoes, rice-flour, or the water

in which rice has been boiled. It should be as thick

as thin cream, and this should be diluted with four Howstarcb.

may be

times its volume of warm water—one quart of made, starch to four quarts of
water. These proportions are for the first water in which the garment is
washed. The second water should be composed of eight quarts of water and one
quart of starch.

TO MAKE THE STARCH

Mix to a smooth paste half a cupful of corn-starch, or rice-starch, and one
pint of cold water. Pour on this, stirring all the time, three quarts of
boiling water. Cook for five minutes, stirring continually, then ^J^dSe1 add
three quarts of cold water, and strain through made, cheese-cloth.

Flour-starch is made in the same manner, except that a cupful of flour is used.

To wash a garment with the starch, put two and one half quarts of the starch
into a tub with eight quarts of water. To wash Wash the garment in this
thoroughly, just as garments you would with soap-suds. Have eight quarts starch
of warm wa,ter i n a second tub, and one pint of the starch. The garment is to
be washed in this water, and rinsed in plenty of cold water. Turn it wrong side
out, and put on the line at once. When dry, sprinkle, and iron on the wrong
side. The method of washing with starch is by all odds the most satisfactory
for dark prints, cambrics, sateens, etc. Garments that are very much soiled
require twice the quantity of starch mentioned above.

SILK UNDERGARMENTS

Articles made of silk should always be washed in tepid water, and the soap used
on them should not be caustic. Materials White Castile soap, or any good white
soap, will used in answer. If the silks are to be kept white, ammonia w^J^n8
should not be used, as it gives a yellow tinge; a little borax, however, may be
used. If the silk is of an ecru shade, ammonia may be employed.

Never rub silk garments on the board in washing; always rub them with the
hands.

Make a strong suds of tepid water, and add to it one teaspoonful of borax,
which has been dissolved in a pint of Method of boiling water. This is enough
for two pailfuls of washing suds. Put the silk garments into it, and let them
and press- stand f0r twenty minutes or half an hour; then

mg' wash them with the hands. Rinse in two waters, run through the wringer, and
hang them out. When a little more than half dried, take them in and spread on a
sheet. Roll them up tightly, let them stand about an hour, and then press them.
Use a rather cool iron, and have a clean white cloth or brown paper between the
iron and silk.

In washing embroidered linens or colored silks, omit the borax and ammonia, and
after an article of this kind has been rinsed and passed through the wringer,
spread washingof it smoothly on a dry sheet and roll it up. Let it
embroiderstand about fifteen minutes, then press, with a jjjksin cloth between
the fabric and the iron. colors.

WASHING WITH KEROSENE

Washing white clothing with kerosene is quite common in this country and in
Europe. I give directions for the method of doing this, not because I like it
or ap- Kerosen8 prove of it, but because, if it is done at all, it is as it is
best that it should be done properly. ^aund ^

The clothing should be soaked as directed in the usual method. In the morning,
hot water should be added to the suds in which the clothes have soaked, and
they should be rubbed out in this water.

The boiler should be half full of boiling water, to which enough dissolved soap
may be added to make a strong suds. Two tablespoonfuls of kerosene should also
be ItjBimpor. added, and enough of the washed clothing put in taut that to fill
the boiler moderately full. Let the pieces 'JjJjJ^ boil half an hour. added to

Take the clothes from the boiler at the end of Va^^"9 that time, and put them
in a tub half full of suds. Add sufficient cold water to the suds in the boiler
to fill it half full, and enough soap to make a strong suds. When this boils,
add a tablespoonful of kerosene, put in a second batch of the clothes, and boil
half an hour. Proceed in this manner until all the clothing has been boiled.

In the mean time wash the boiled clothing from the suds, rubbing any portions
that are not clean; rinse in three waters, wring, and hang out to dry.

The advantage of this method of washing is that it does

away with much rubbing; but there must be the greatest care in rinsing. The
pieces must be rinsed in many waters; but even when this has been done
thoroughly, I have never yet seen clothes washed by this process that did not
retain a slight odor of the kerosene. This is most disagreeable in sheets,
pillow-cases, towels, and napkins, or, indeed, in any article that comes near
enough to the face to allow an odor to be perceived. One of the charms of fresh
linen is the pure, delicate odor that should be a part of it. It is to be hoped
that this method of washing clothes with kerosene will not be encouraged by
housekeepers.

LACE CURTAINS

The difficulty in washing lace curtains is to keep them in shape, and to avoid
tearing them. As they will not bear hard rubbing, the dirt must be removed by
soakGreat care ing tjieni, and SOpping them gently.

in the Fine lace curtains should not be made too stiff; washing of the coarser
the lace, the more starch will be

l&cO cUTTM

tains. required. The stiffening may be of starch, gelatin, or gum arabic. Borax
helps to hold the stiffening in starched materials.

If it is desired to give the lace an old look, dip the curtains in tea or
coffee after the last rinsing; or the stiffening mixture may be colored with
tea, coffee, or saffor toe? fron- Coffee is apt to leave an odor.

Fill a tub half full of tepid water; add to this half a pound of soap dissolved
in two quarts of water, and two tablespoonfuls of borax dissolved in a quart of
boiling water. Method of Shake the dust from the curtains, and put washing them
to soak in this water, letting them stand ^tatM1" overmght. In the morning half
fill a tub with hot water, and add a tablespoonful of dissolved borax and
enough dissolved soap to make a good suds. Sop the curtains from the water in
which they have been soaking. Squeeze the water from them, and put them in the
hot suds. Sop and squeeze them in this water until all the dirt has been
pressed out, then rinse them in clear water until there is no trace of soap or
dirt. Squeeze them as dry as possible, and spread them on the grass, or hang
them on the lines, to dry. When dry, starch them, and draw them into the shape
and length you wish, and fasten them into the frame, if you have one. If a
frame ^^cur7 is lacking, cover a mattress with a clean sheet, tains, and draw
the curtains into shape on this, pinning them down. The mattress should be
outdoors, or in a room where the windows may be kept open. Of course the
curtains will have to be folded when treated in this way, as it would not be
possible to find a mattress long enough to admit of their being stretched at
full length.

It will often be found that, after washing, the M^^e curtains are of uneven
lengths. To obviate this, washing measure the length of the curtain before
washing; stretch then, when stretching on the frame or mattress, whfag" measure
both sides, and stretch them to get the original lengths. When this is done,
they may be drawn gently to their full width. The curtains will hang better if,
after having been dried in this manner, they are pressed with an iron that is
not very hot.

STARCHING

Starching should be done with the greatest care; for if not properly done, the
articles will not look well, no necessary matter how much care may be exercised
in ironing. ««* when

Starch is made from a great variety of vegeta- 8k"'01"118, bles. Besides the
pure starch which is generally ^a"^8 used, gums and gelatins are sometimes
employed starch, for special articles, like silks, laces, veils, curtains, etc.

Turpentine is sometimes used in raw starch to give a gloss and whiteness.

1. Borax is used to give gloss and prevent the starched article from losing
stiffness when exposed to dampness. Boiling for a long time makes starch
clearer and less likely to stick.

2. For muslins it is very important that the starch should be thoroughly
boiled, that the muslins may look clear.

3. The water in which rice has been boiled should be makes a good starch for
colored articles, white

thoroughly skirts, and any garments that are not to be made Muslins* verv ^aw
starcn makes articles stiff er than boiled starch. Sometimes cuffs, collars,
and shirtbosoms that have been starched in the hot boiled starch are dampened
with raw starch to give them extra stiffness.

4. Thin handkerchiefs, silks, laces, etc., are often forTMeUcate s^ened with
gum arabic. This gives them a finish

fabrics. like a new article. The purest gum arabic is used

for this purpose, because it is almost colorless. Laces, lace veils, silks,
etc., have more of an appearance of newness when stiffened with this
preparation than when starch is used.

TO MAKE GUM-ARABIC STARCH

Put an ounce of the gum in a wide-mouthed bottle, and cover with half a pint of
cold water. Place the bottle in a pan of cold water on the fire. When the gum
is dissolved, strain it through a piece of cheese-cloth into another bottle,
and when it is cold add half a gill of alcohol. Cork and put away for use. A
portion of this may be diluted to suit the article to be stiffened. This
preparation will keep for years. Articles stiffened with gum arabic, isinglass,
gelatin, or ricewater are apt to be a little off color, so it is best not to
use these substances when absolute whiteness is required.

STIFFENING WITH GELATIN

Either gelatin or isinglass makes a satisfactory stiffening for colored
fabrics. Silks that have been washed, Use of gel. and that require a little
dressing, cotton or silk atinto curtains, etc., are all improved by a slight
stiffen- '^^J?" ing with either of these substances. rics.

Soak one fourth of an ounce of gelatin or isin- Direetion9 glass in half a pint
of cold water for one hour, for using Pour on this one quart of boiling water.
Stir $e?at"1°r until all the gelatin is dissolved, then strain, and it is ready
for use. The articles to be stiffened should be wrung dry and* dipped in the
prepared gelatin, then wrung and dried, dampened and ironed, the same as if
boiled starch had been used.

Weak tea or coffee may be used instead of the boiling water, if a slight ecru
tint is desired.

BOILED STARCH

The amount of boiling water used in making a boiled starch depends upon the
degree of stiffness desired; shirt-bosoms, cuffs, and collars requiring the
greatest degree of Notes on stiffness, while laces, table-linen, and
undercloth- starch and ing require the least.

When articles must be very stiff, as is the case stiffness with shirts and
collars and cuffs, a combination of "quired the boiled and raw starch gives the
best results. The following preparations will be a guide for the inexperienced
laundress:

No. 1.

1 tablespoonful of starch. Very stiff.

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water.
1 gill of boiling water.

This is to be used for cuffs, collars, and shirt-bosoms that are to be made
very stiff.

No. 2—the same rule as No. 1, using half a pint of boiling water. This is for
shirt-bosoms, cuffs, and collars when they are to be wet afterward with raw
starch. Coarse ^stiff6" lace curtains, collars and cuffs of shirt-waists, etc.,
require starch of about this strength.

No. 3—the same as No. 1, except that three gills of boiling water are used.
This will be about right for white skirts and other articles that should be
fairly stiff.

No. 4—the same as No. 1, using one pint of boiling water. This is suitable for
skirts, dresses, etc.

No. 5.

1 tablespoonful of starch, suggestion 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, of
starch. 2 quarts of boiling water.

Merely a

This starch is suitable for table-linen and laces that should

not have more than a suggestion of starch.

Starched articles may be ironed more easily, and they take

a better gloss, if an oily or waxy substance is dissolved in the How to starch-
A bit of wax or sperm candle, a bit of

securethe lard or mutton suet, will answer the purpose. A

easefin' ^tle borax added to the starch gives a finer gloss

ironing to the ironed article, and enables it to hold its

starched stiffness in a damp atmosphere, such as that at articles. ., ,

the sea-shore.

The starch must always be boiled until it is clear. The water and every utensil
used in making it must be absolutely clean.

To make the starch, have the water boiling. Mix the dry starch with cold water.
Gradually pour the boilo^making mS water on this mixture, stirring all the
time. starch. Stir over the fire until the starch looks clear. It

will take about ten minutes, cooking for this. To the rule given, add a piece
of candle or lard about the size of a white bean, and half a teaspoonful of
powdered borax. Strain the starch through a piece of cheese-cloth. If the
starch has been stirred continually during the cooking, and is used at once, it
will not require straining.

If a suggestion of bluing is liked, add a little Bluing to the cooking starch.
Both turpentine and borax give whiteness and gloss to starched linen, but they
must be used with care, else they will injure the fabric.

RAW STARCH

1 tablespoonful of starch.
\ pint of cold water.
1 teaspoonful of borax.
A few drops of turpentine.

This rule is for raw starch, to be used on linen that is required quite stiff.
Twice as much water must be used for linen that is to be made moderately stiff.
Mix the Faotstore starch and other ingredients thoroughly, and strain member in

through cheese-cloth. making

raw starch.

This starch begins to settle the moment it is at rest; therefore it must be
thoroughly stirred when used.

The pieces to be starched must be dry. Dip them into the starch, and rub them
as if they were being washed. Squeeze them dry, and spread them smoothly on a
clean sheet. One article must not be placed upon another. Fold the sheet over
them, and roll tightly. If the pieces are large, the folded sheet may be run
through the wringer; but for small articles this is not necessary. The starched
articles should lie for half an hour or an hour.

When ironing these pieces, have a thin piece of cloth to spread over the
portion being ironed. The iron must be hot.

bang most be hot

when ironing rawstarched

garments.

Importance of articles

thoroughly damp for ironing.

Go over the article, with the cloth between it and the iron, until it is about
half dry; then take off the cloth, and iron until the piece is perfectly dry.
Use a good deal of pressure.

It is important that the iron should be hot when it is first used on articles
that have been rawstarched, because it is only by this means that the starch
becomes cooked and gummy.

It is equally important that there should be enough moisture in the fabric to
combine with the starch. If a spot gets dry, it will not be either smooth or
stiff. For this reason it is a good plan to have the portions that are not
being ironed covered with a wet cloth. If a spot gets too dry, wring a clean
cloth out of cold water, and dampen the place with it. It takes but little time
to prepare raw starch, and the work of starching the articles is slight; but it
requires the greatest care to iron a large piece so that it may be smooth and
of equal stiffness in every part. The cloth must be wet, the iron hot at first,
and the ironing must be continued until every thread is dry.

In using boiled starch, the articles should be starched while wet. If the
article is to be made very stiff, the starch must be used as hot as possible,
and be rubbed and clapped into the linen. Great care must be taken to get the
starch distributed evenly through the threads of the fabric, and to remove it
as much as possible from the surface. It is a good plan, therefore, after the
starch has been rubbed and clapped in, to draw the cuffs, collars, and
shirt-bosoms through the fingers, thus removing the superfluous starch. Each
plait of the shirt-bosom must be drawn between the forefinger and thumb.

Before beginning to starch, the hands must be washed thoroughly with soap and
warm water.

How boiled starch is used. Care

most be taken that it is evenly distributed.

All articles starched with the boiled starch must be dried

thoroughly, and then made very damp, and rolled whenus

tightly in a clean, dry cloth. They should lie in ing boiled

the cloth for two or more hours before being Bgt^entsT ironed. then

Starched articles must not be hung where they ^"on"^

will freeze. a dry doth.

HANGING CLOTHES OUT TO DRY

The oxygen of the air, and the sun, are great aids in whitening and sweetening
clothes, and, when possible, every article should be dried in the open air.

The lines must be fastened securely; wipe them with a

clean, damp cloth before the clothes are hung upon them.

Be sure that the clothes-pins are clean and whole. Careof ^

Clothes-pins that have lain on the ground in rain and

and snow are not fit to use; the best way to dis- ciotnee

pins.

pose of these is to put them in the fire. When the clothes are taken in, the
pins should be put in a bag or basket kept for this purpose. When it is
possible, the line should be taken down. A line that is exposed to the elements
rots slowly, and soils the clothing that is hung upon it. Every piece must be
turned wrong side out before being put on the lines.

Group all articles of the same kind together on the line, if possible. Do not
hang the pieces by the corners, as the strain tears them and gets them out of
shape. Fasten garments by the bands, when possible, ^jjgj^ They are less liable
to tear when hung this way, the line, as the heavier parts do not hang down.

White clothing should be hung in the sun, and colored clothing in the shade. Do
not hang starched articles where they will be exposed to a strong wind, as the
wind drives the starch out of the fabric.

FOLDING CLOTHES FOE IRONING

When clothing is folded properly, the ironing is half accomplished. The pieces
should be folded as quickly as Prepara- possible after they are taken from the
line. Have tionof the laundry or kitchen clean; spread a clean Afm f°r
ironing-cloth on the table; place a bowl of clean, warm water within reach, and
beside it a small brush, something like a scrubbing-brush, but about one fourth
as large. Spread one article at a time on the table, dip the brush lightly in
the warm water, and sprinkle the piece with it, getting a fine spray on all
parts. Continue this until all the plain clothes are dampened. Be careful to
keep articles of the same kind together. Line the clothesbasket with a piece of
clean cotton kept for this purpose.

Clear one end of the table for the folding, and begin with the smaller pieces.
Plain articles, like napkins, towels, handkerchiefs, pillow-cases, etc., may be
folded together.

Beginning with the napkins, lay a piece perfectly flat on the table, draw the
edges straight, and pass the hand over the napkin, smoothing out the wrinkles;
place anTMoiding0f other napkin on this, drawing it out in the same manner.
Continue this until all the napkins are in the pile; then roll firmly, and wrap
a towel around them. The handkerchiefs and pillow-cases should be done in the
same manner.

The towels are to be folded in the middle, with the edges drawn straight and
the fold in the middle laid perfectly even. Directions ^ace one towel uPon
another, as in the case of for folding *ne napkins, and roll. Sheets and
table-cloths

sheets, must be folded in the middle, and the sides clothj^etc. an(* corners
matched with great care; the edges and the middle folds must be firmly drawn.
Two persons can do this better than one. All the folding must be done with care
and exactness. Starched articles should be protected from the air. It is well
to keep pieces of cotton cloth for this purpose and for wrapping up small
pieces like napkins and handkerchiefs.

Sheets, pillow-cases, towels, and underclothing should be dampened only
slightly. Table-linen should be made quite damp, and all starched pieces should
be made very damp.

Clothes may be ironed much more easily when they have been dampened and folded
several hours. This is possible if the clothes are folded the same day on which
they are washed, and ironed on the following day.

Some articles must

be very, and others only slightly, damp.

PREPARING FOR IRONING

For good work it is absolutely necessary that the table and ironing-board are
firm and unwarped, and that their covering is soft and smooth.

The table and board should each have a first cover of thick woolen or cotton
material; an old blanket is excellent for this purpose, and over it there
should be a clean white cotton cover. These coverings may be tacked permanently
on the board, but they must be removed from the table as soon as the ironing is
finished.

Spread the woolen cover in place, and tack it, using the smallest-sized tacks,
under the edges of the board or table, drawing it tightly so that there shall
not be the suggestion of a wrinkle. Now put on the white cotton cover. Tack
this in the same way, taking care to keep it perfectly smooth.

There must be a good fire for the ironing; it must not burn too rapidly, and it
must never be ^^entiaf.6 allowed to reach a white heat.

See that the irons are scrupulously clean and smooth, and put them to heat.

Lay several thicknesses of newspaper or brown paper on

the corner of the ironing-table. At the right hand, and on the paper, place the
stand for the irons. Just beyond this have a soft old cloth on which to wipe
the irons. tJent IT See that there is a piece of beeswax tied in a ironing
piece of cloth, ready for use. Close at hand, but ancel" n0t on ^e table, place
a paper on which is about half a cupful of salt. Whenever the iron seems a
little rough, rub it on the salt, wipe it, and then go over it lightly with the
wax, and wipe again. Be very careful to have every part of the irons, top and
bottom, perfectly clean.

The irons become smoother and the heat grows more even as the ironing goes on;
therefore it is better to begin by What to do iromnS some of the coarser towels
until the irons tm the get in fair condition; then iron sheets, pillow

""hot*8 cases' and table-cIoths

Every time the fire is replenished it takes a

short time to burn up to a bright heat. Handkerchiefs

should be ironed in this interval.

As soon as the irons get very hot, begin on the starched

articles. Keep a few coarse towels at hand to iron if the

heat of the iron needs to be tempered before it is applied

to the starched pieces. Finish all the starched articles, and

then go back to the plain clothing. The fire may have to be

How to replenished several times, but it will save time,

care for strength, and fuel if one is careful not to let it

fire when jjUrn up a white heat, and not to choke the ironing.

draft by packing the coal in the stove. Put coal on the fire as lightly as
possible. Do not shake the fire down if you can help it, for that packs the
coal and cinders together, so that there is not enough space left for the
oxygen to pass freely between the coals. It is as difficult for a fire to burn
without oxygen as it is for us to breathe without it.

It is much easier to give explicit directions for the methods of washing and
starching than it is to give them for ironing. In this part of the laundry work
practice is necessary. It is hoped that with the detailed directions given for
the washing, starching, and folding, and the suggestions in regard to ironing,
the beginner may find that, with practice, she can attain the best results.

Every piece should be ironed until it is dry. The greater the pressure of the
iron, the smoother and more glossy the surface of the material will be.

The iron should pass smoothly and regularly over the cloth, the movement being
up and down in the direction of the selvage, with the grain of the cloth.

The pressure should be light until the cloth has M°ron. been made smooth; then 
press very hard. The iron should not be half lifted, or used in a jerky manner.
It must rest on the cloth, and be moved rather slowly at first, to avoid making
little creases. After the cloth is smooth the movement may be more rapid.

Table-linen should be ironed in a single thickness until it is perfectly dry;
then it may be folded and pressed. There should be as few folds as possible in
a table-cloth. How taWe

Napkins and handkerchiefs should be folded in linen such a manner that the
initials or other markings slj^abe come on the outside.

The borders of napkins and handkerchiefs should be ironed first; care must be
taken to pull them even, so that they shall fold perfectly square.

Table-linen that is fine and heavy will not require starch, but the linen that
lacks body is improved by the use of a very little starch. When

Each article should be hung on the frame to air table-linen as soon as it is
ironed. Table-cloths, napkins, and ^tareTM8 handkerchiefs are the exceptions to
this rule. They should remain folded, and be laid on some flat surface, like a
board, until the ironing is finished, when they will be aired sufficiently to
be put away.

FOLDING THE CLOTHES AFTER IRONING

No matter how well the clothing has been ironed, if it is carelessly folded
when being taken from the clothes-horse it

will never be satisfactory. oMoidiJig See that a table is clear and clean. Draw
the

clothes clothes-horse near it, and lift off one piece at a Zoning!1 tTMe. Fold
each piece carefully in the creases made by the iron, and press smoothly with
the hands. Be sure that each piece lies smoothly in the basket in which it is
to be taken up-stairs. The table-linen should be kept in a broad drawer or box,
so that the table-cloths need not be folded in too many creases.

Fasten night-dresses and night-shirts by the button at the neck, as it will
then be easy to fold them neatly.

A FEW WORDS ABOUT THE CLOTHES-WRINGER

When the washing is finished, loosen the screws that tighten the rubber
cylinders. Wipe the cogs and every part of the machine dry.

If the wringer works hard, pour a little kerosene on the cogs, and work them
for a few seconds; then wipe them, and put a few drops of sewing-machine oil on
them, and work for a minute.

On washing day wipe the machine carefully to remove any particles of
superfluous oil; tighten the cylinders.

THE LAUNDRY

The essential furnishings of a laundry are: three or four good tubs, a boiler,
stationary or portable, wash-board, The neces- clothes-wringer, clothes-stick,
ironing-board, table, "ture foTa" pa^, set of Aat-irons, porcelain-lined
saucepan and laundry, wooden spoon for starch-making, small bowl, large dipper
for taking water from boiler, etc., ironing-blanket and -sheet, stand for
irons, holders for irons, floor-cloth and cloths for washing tubs, boilers,
etc., clothes-basket, clothes-line, clothes-pins and a bag or basket for
holding them, and, finally, a stove or some other means of heating irons.

If the laundry, and every article in it, are not kept scrupulously clean, the
work done in it cannot be satisfactory.

Before the washing is begun, the room should be made perfectly clean.

After the washing is finished, every article used in the work should be washed,
and then thoroughly rinsed in clear water. The boiler must be wiped dry. Wash
and wipe the floor. Let cold water run freely into the tubs, that every trace
of suds may be removed from tubs and pipes; then wipe the tubs dry. Wash,
rinse, and dry the cleaning-cloths.

After the ironing is finished, and the clothes have been removed, the room
should be swept and dusted, blankets, sheets, etc., folded, and everything put
in order.

If the suds from the washing are not thoroughly rinsed from tubs, pails,
wringer, etc., a disagreeable odor will fill the laundry and finally penetrate
to the other parts of the house.

Must be kept absolutely clean. Everything in order before washing is

menced.

Tabs, pails, etc., most be thoroughly

HOW TO DISSOLVE SOAP

Shave the soap, and put it in a stew-pan with water. Place this on the fire,
and let it heat slowly until the soap is dissolved, which will take about an
hour.

Use three quarts of water for one pound of soap.

HOW TO CLEAN IRONS

The longer flat-irons are in use, the smoother and better they become and the
more easily they are kept clean.

All irons are better for being greased, once in a while, with warm mutton
tallow or sweet-oil. Let them stand a few days after the grease has been
applied, wash them in a strong soap-suds, then rinse them in hot soda-water,
and wipe dry. If the irons get rusted, cover the rusted part with sweet-oil and
powdered quicklime, arid let them stand several days. Wash this off with water,
and then with strong soda-water.

Fine emery-paper will often remove rust and roughness from irons, and
rottenstone and sweet-oil will clean them.

Mix powdered rottenstone with the oil, and spread move'rust on a board; work
the iron back and forth on this until bright and smooth; wash in strong, hot
soapsuds, or in a hot solution of sal-soda.

To insure the perfect cleanliness of irons, they should be washed in soap and
water frequently. Irons should always be kept in a clean, dry place.

The laundress is often very careless of her health. She will leave the
wash-tub, where she has become heated, and where the steam from the hot water
has opened tanoeof the pores of her arms and hands, and go, barelaundress
headed and bare-armed, out into the chill winherhealta. trv air to hang up the
clothes. She should remember that her health is her capital, and that without
it she will become a burden to herself and others. If she has perfect health
and a good constitution, she ought to thank God for one of the greatest
blessings that can be given to mankind, and guard it gratefully and
intelligently. How to When the weather is cold or raw, wipe the hands dress and
arms dry, pull the sleeves down, have a jacket aTd^uick- or shawl to protect
the shoulders and lungs, and ly when put a covering of some kind on the head.
This oufctothes shomda^ be done before venturing outdoors. In intensely cold
weather wear clean white mittens. If the ground is damp, or covered with snow,
put on rubbers.

Carefulness in these little details will prevent many colds and much impaired
health.

A rubber apron will protect the clothing from the wet during the washing.

Many girls feel that they cannot afford these things; but one week,s wages
would buy everything but, perhaps, the sack or shawl, and one always has
something of Money exthat kind on hand which is practically useless for pended
in any other purpose. Even if it is necessary to buy health ii the wrap, it
would be money well invested, and it weU inwill be the means of saving much
suffering. vested.

The laundress should be conscientious in her work, doing it honestly. The use
of destructive chemicals should be avoided. No one has a right to use
substances that will destroy the fabric. She should do by her employers as she
would like them to do by her.

CHAPTER VI

CARE OF LIGHTING APPLIANCES Management of gas. Oil-lamps. Some facts in regard
to petroleum. MANAGEMENT OF GAS

Gas and electricity are the two most convenient forms of Gas and lighting
houses.

electricity. When gas is burned, the pipes should be careCareofgas- fully
examined, from time to time, to make sure burners that there are no leaks. The
burners should be and keys. c1eaned frequently, or renewed when they do not
work well. The keys should stand square when the gas is turned off. A loose key
that does not indicate to a certainty when the gas is turned on or off should
not be tolerated for one day.

When there is a whistling sound from the burning gas, it indicates that
unconsumed gas is escaping through the burner; the key should be turned until
the sound ceases.

If rubber tubing is used on a drop-light, always lower the light by turning off
the gas at the pipe that supplies the tubing. If the light is turned off at the
lamp, ber tubing. the extra pressure on the tubing causes some of the gas to
escape. The rubber tubing should be frequently removed from the lamp and pipe,
and hung in the

126

open air. Odor of escaping gas should be traced promptly to its source, and the
leak should be repaired instantly.

Should there be a strong odor of gas in any room in the house, or in the
cellar, do not carry a light while investigating it. Open the doors and windows
first, that the gas may be carried out by a current of air. After a short time
it will be safe to use a light, if that be necessary. If there is a suspicion
of a large leak, do not test it with a lighted match; the odor should be a
guide.

Acquaint yourself with the location of the stopcock that turns the supply of
gas off from the house, so that in case of accident the gas may be cut off
readily. Learn to read the meter. Some gas companies give clear anameten.
directions for this on the back of their bills.

When round-top burners are used, see that the flame does not spread so as to
reach the globe. The flat-top burners are to be preferred, because they prevent
this spreading of the flame. burners.

The globes should be dusted when the room is being dusted, and they must be
washed as soon £^2^ as they become dim or soiled. In dusting gas fixtures,
fixtures, be careful not to wrench or twist them. Never use a polish on the
ordinary fixtures. If they are in a bad condition, have them removed and taken
to the burnisher. This is, in the end, the cheapest thing to do.

[ocr errors]

The best lamps and the best oil are invariably the safest and cheapest. The
lamps least trying to the eyes are those known as the student lamps. Indeed,
there is no other artificial light, as far as I know, that is as iampS.
satisfactory to work by. Every household should have at least one of these
lamps. They range in price from two dollars and seventy cents to fifteen
dollars or more. When the price goes much over six or eight dollars, it is
owing to the metal and ornamentation, and not because of any improvement in the
quality of the light.- A student lamp should be chosen, like a watch, first of
all for its working qualities.

The first consideration, in purchasing a lamp of Uonfci pur- anvdescription, is
that it must be safe, and that the chasing burner is large enough to carry a
good-sized wick, lamps. rpo fujgj ^ requirements of safety, a lamp Require-
should stand on a firm, broad base, the oil reserments ne- voir should have no
other opening than that into Safety101 which the burner is screwed, and each
burner should have an extinguisher. The wicks should be soft and of rather a
loose mesh. They should fill the burner, and yet not pack it. A wick Wicks ^at
does not ^ burner will admit air into the reservoir, which, in case any gas has
collected there, may cause an explosion. This matter of the wick is a most
important one, and should be better understood by the dealers in lamps and lamp
supplies. When a salesman fits a lamp with a wick that is too small, and an
explosion follows, why should he not be held equally guilty with the drug clerk
who carelessly puts up a poison instead of the correct prescription? Many of
the lamp explosions which are occurring constantly might be traced to this
matter of too small a wick. It is a subject that concerns every housekeeper,
and an effort should be made to have the lamps safe in this respect at least.

The essentials of a clear light are clean burners, clean wicks, and clean
chimneys. Dirty burners and wicks not only make a clouded light, but they give
off, also, ofTdear disagreeable odors. light. A lamp should never be lighted
after standing, partially filled, for a day or two. The empty part of the
reservoir may have become full of gas, and a jar, or a current of cold air, may
cause an explosion.

In lighting a lamp, turn down the wick, and put on the chimney and shade, then
gradually turn the wick up. This will give all parts of the glass time to heat
slowly and to expand equally. Extinguish a lamp by hght^ turning the wick
fairly well down and then pull- lamp and ing the extinguisher. If there is no
extinguisher," blow across the top of the chimney, never down into it, as that
might drive the flame into the reservoir, where it is always possible that gas
may have collected.

When carrying a lamp from one place to another, turn the wick rather low, as
the movement produces a current of air, causing the flame to flare up and
smoke. In carrying a student lamp, lighted or unlighted, be ^ySg0"" careful not
to incline it toward the burner, as that lamp from will cause the oil to
overflow—a dangerous thing ^i^0 when the lamp is lighted, and not a desirable
one at any time. Be sure, too, that this lamp stands perfectly level on the
table.

The daily care of a lamp consists of filling it with oil, trimming the wick,
wiping the burner and the out- Daily ear& side of the lamp, and cleaning the
shade and chimney. This work should be done in the morning while there is a
good light.

For this work have a tray, a pair of sharp scis- Necessary sors, cloth for
wiping the lamp, two cloths, one ments for for the chimneys and one for the
shades, and a cleaning small brush for the interior of the chimneys. One lamPs.
may sometimes find a similar brush, but very small, for washing the interior of
the burners.

Cover the tray with paper. Place the reservoirs on this, removing the curved
top from the burner. Turn the wick high enough to expose all the charred part.
With the sharp scissors cut this off, being careful to cut cieaning. straight
across the wick. If there is the slightest unevenness, remove it. Now turn the
wick well down, and

with a soft paper wipe the top of the burner clean, both inside and outside.
When all the lamps are in order, fill them with oil, taking care to have the
oil come within an inch of the top of the reservoir, as space must be allowed
for the expansion of the oil, and for the fact that the wicks draw it upward.

Be sure that the tops are screwed on firmly. See that there is no dirt in the
space around the burner which admits the air. If this place becomes obstructed
the lamp will be deprived of one of the essential elements of combustion,
oxygen, and it will not burn brightly. Wipe the lamps carefully, and put all
the parts together.

Once in every two or three weeks wash the burners in strong soap-suds or in
soda-water. Many persons boil them in soda-water, but with the treatment here
outburners, lined this is not necessary, as the burners, if so cared for, will
never get clogged or have a strong odor. The wiping of the lamps may be done
with soft papers, which can then be burned, using the soft cloths to give the
final polish.

The chimneys may be cleaned by breathing into them and rubbing clean with soft
paper, or they may be washed with soap and water, and polished dry with a clean
chimneys, doth. Never leave a drop of water on the chimney.

When the supply of oil is taken from sealed cans, cut the seal and put in a
stopper of some kind, which is, of course, removed when pouring out oil.

A few bubbles of air in the oil-tank of a student lamp will often prevent a
free flow of oil through the narrow pipe that carries the oil from the tank to
the burner, causing ^uTMes the lamp to give a dim yellow light. When filling a
dent lamp, student lamp bear this in mind, and fill the tank to the top, and if
any air-bubbles appear break them.

A lamp in which kerosene-oil is used should burn with a clear, white light. If
the light is dim and yellow, it is owing

to one of these causes: the oil is poor; the wick is charred,

or the burner and wick are dirty; or the wick is

turned too low; or bubbles of air impede the flow ,9°i°r of, ... ' • r light
and

of oil.

The wick of the lamp must be turned high enough to produce free combustion. If
it is turned down How *? low, the light is not only bad for the eyes, but the
light, room will be filled with a vile odor. Should it be necessary to have a
dim light in the room, set the lamp in an adjoining room, or shade it in such a
manner that the light is not diffused. On no account lower the wick below the
point where the light is white and clear.

When lighting a lamp it must be remembered that the current of air is stronger
after the lamp ^rnt^he" has been lighted a few minutes; therefore the wick
lamp, should not be turned to its full capacity at first.

The astral-oil that is sold in sealed cans insures a safe and good light.

SOME FACTS IN REGARD TO PETROLEUM

In this country nearly all our illuminating oil comes from the natural mineral
oil, termed crude petroleum. The quality of the natural product varies greatly,
but the process of refining should give a safe and good article, no matter what
the condition of the original product may have been.

The oil, as it comes from the wells, ranges in color from a yellowish white to
almost black, and from a liquid nearly as thin as water to a thick, ropy mass.
The lighter and thinner grades are those from which ^ej^0^^ the greater part of
the burning oils are made. ral state. These oils are generally sold under the
name of kerosene. There are other products of petroleum, however, which are
used in the arts and in the household. An understanding of what these are, and
of their behavior under various conditions, will enable the housekeeper to know
why certain conditions and modes of treatment are safe, while others are
dangerous.

Products of From the crude petroleum we get gasolene, crude pe- naphtha,
kerosene, paraffin, vaseline, etc. troleum. The crude oil is put into immense
stills, which Purifying are heated from beneath, and immediately gases
petroleum. ^e^n to rise an(j pass ovei.; foe lightest passing

over first. In this process of purifying the oil it is very important that all
the oil that would vaporize or ignite at a temperature below 110° F. should be
removed. If benzin is left in the oil, or added later, the chances of an
explosion are increased.

When there is doubt in regard to the safety of an oil, try it by filling a cup
about a quarter full of cold water. Put a thermometer into this, and add
boiling water until the mercury rises to 110° F. Then take out the thermometer,
safetyof an<* Pour a C0UPle of spoonfuls of the oil into the oil. cup. With a
lighted match or taper try to ignite the oil. If it takes fire it is unsafe and
should not be used for lamps or stoves.

Oil that stands this test, or even a test as high as 135° F. if left in a lamp
partially filled for a day or two, will sometimes vaporize, filling the vacant
space of the reservoir with a gas that will explode if mixed with air and there
is a possibility of the mixture coming in contact with the flame.

important It *s ^or *n*s reason tnat we should not let lamps points in stand
partially full of oil and then light them;

care of ^at we should be careful that the wicks fill the lamps.

burners, so that there may be no room for a passage of air; and that we should
never blow down on the flame, thus running the risk of driving it against the
gas that may have collected near the burner.

CHAPTER VII

FUEL AND FIRES

Kinds of fuel. Care of the furnace fire. The morning work. The coldair box.
Heating-stoves. Care of the range. Some points to remember in the treatment of
range fires. Grate fires. Don,ts. To remove clinkers.

The fuel that is used for cooking and heating is an important item for the
housekeeper. This is one of the household supplies that should be bought in
bulk whenever possible. The best time to lay in the yearly supply is in the
late summer or early autumn. Certainly the arrangements as to price and time of
delivery should be made in the summer, when, as a rule, prices are lower than
later in the season.

If one lives in a city, and the coal is carried to the bin through a hole in
the sidewalk, the care of putting away the coal is somewhat less than when one
must see that the side of the house, lawn, and flower- titm of beds are
properly protected. In any case there cellar, etc., is the inevitable dust and
work in the cellar, and fj£ S^jjjf once a year is often enough for this extra
work and care to fall upon the household. When the coal is to be put into the
bins through an opening in the side of the house, this part of the building
should be protected by thick folds of carpet or burlaps tacked over such places
as are likely to be rubbed by the men in putting the coal into the chute.

Should it be necessary to pass over the lawn, protect it by laying down boards
for the men to walk over. The cellar windows must be opened, and all doors
opening Pona^n into the coal-room should be closed. The registers throughout
the. house should be closed and covered with paper. Coal- and wood-bins must be
perfectly clean. All the boards used in closing up the bins should be ready for
the workmen.

After the wood and coal are in, take the carpets from the walls, fold them, and
put them in place; take up the boards Cleaning of ^rom *ne lawn, and put them,
with the carpets, cellar after ready for use the next time. Sweep the cellar

been'uthi w^ a ^amP broom. Brush the coal-dust from walls and articles in the
room, sweeping the floor a second time. Have the sidewalk swept clean, and the
chips and bits of coal removed from the lawn. See that the openings used by the
workmen are all properly fastened. Look after the windows and doors in the
cellar; it sometimes happens that a sneak-thief thinks this is a good chance to
get into the house.

KINDS OF FUEL

The cost and kind of fuel used depend largely upon the section of the country
in which one lives. In New England wood and anthracite coal are the principal
fuels. kindsof ^as and petroleum are used to some extent for fuel. heating and
cooking, and the soft or bituminous

coal is sometimes used for grates. We speak of the two kinds of coal—anthracite
and bituminous. These two coals are quite different in appearance and in manner
of combustion. Pure anthracite has a high luster and burns without flame.
Bituminous coal is

not so hard or lustrous, and burns with a flame; it also throws off black
smoke, and for this reason is not used when the anthracite can be had at a
reasonable price. There are grades of coal between the anthracite and the
bituminous; for example, there is a bituminous coal which has been in the
transition state and would have become good anthracite had the conditions
remained favorable. This coal looks dull and breaks up more readily than the
pure anthracite. It should not cost as much as the genuine hard coal.

With nearly all coal-seams there is a slaty deposit. It is often as black as
coal, but it splits in thin sheets, and it is not difficult to recognize it
among the Spogft^" coals. The housekeeper should always make it a coal, point
to examine the first load of coal, to see that it has the right appearance, i.
e., that it looks brilliant and is not mixed with this slaty substance.

There are two kinds of anthracite coal—the white ash and the red. The
combustion of the red ash is more perfect than that of the white ash. For the
range or stoves a mixture of the two is excellent. The red ash generally costs
a dollar more a ton than the white. Anthracite coal comes in a variety of
sizes—nut, egg, range, grate, furnace, etc.

In selecting coal, the size of the grate or fire-box must be taken into
consideration. A small fire-box will require a smaller size of coal than would
a large one, and so Sizeof coal it is with the grate. If one uses small coal in
a grate the bars of which are far apart, there will naturally be a great deal
of waste. So, really, one must make the acquaintance of furnace and range
before ordering the supply of coal.

Wood, in the ordinary household, is used more ^ood, as a kindling than as a
regular fuel. When em- etc!"6, ployed as a kindling there should be a mixture
of hard and soft wood, well seasoned, cut short, and split rather fine.

When wood is used as a fuel in a stove or fireplace, at least three fourths of
the supply should be hard wood. For the fireplace the pieces should be large;
for the cookingstove there should be a mixture of fine and coarse wood. It is
always better to have the wood cut too short than the least bit too long.

It is very important that wood should be well seasoned. Green wood throws out
very little heat, a great part of the heat being absorbed by the moisture in
the wood.

CARE OF THE FURNACE FIRE

All furnaces are constructed on certain general principles. In every furnace,
no matter what particular make it may be, there are the hot-air pipes, the
chimney-pipe, the tiorToftar damper for chimney-pipe, the check, the drafts in
nace. the lower doors, the dust-damper, the water-pan, the fire-pot, and the
cold-air box. The housekeeper should acquaint herself with them all at the
start.

The shape of the fire-pot is important. A fire-pot that is deep, but small at
the top, will not heat a house as well as The flre- one *nat i8 shallower but
has a broader top surpot. face.

Cleaning of Every one of the flues and pipes of the furnace flues and mugt be
cleaned once a year; the spring is the best pipes. time for this.

In the autumn, before a fire is built, examine all the pipes carefully. See
that the water-pan is filled. Put kindling in the fire-pot. See that all the
registers are closed.

"terting* Open the drafts of the furnace, and bum bits of the fire, paper near
the smoke-pipe. This will start a current of air upward. Now light the
kindling, and put on the wood. After a few minutes put on a layer of coal. When
this gets to burning well, add enough coal to make a deep bed.

Have the registers opened, and open the air-box. As soon as the coal shows that
it is getting well ignited, close the drafts and let the fire burn slowly. When
the house is warm enough, open the check a little.

This fire will require no more attention until evening, when a little more coal
or cinders may be put on, and the damper opened a few minutes to let the gas
escape. Close the drafts, and check the fire for the night.

THE MORNING WORK

In looking after the furnace in the morning, the check must first be closed and
a thin layer of coal put on. Now take up the ashes that are in the bottom of
the furnace. By the time this is done the fire will have ^ffire!6 burned up.
Next open the dust-damper and shake the fire, and with the long poker draw all
the clinkers from the bottom of the grate. Then put on a thick bed of fresh
coal, and, if you have hods or iron-clad barrels, take up the ashes. Let the
fire burn for about ten minutes after the final coal has been put on, and close
the smoke-damper, leaving a portion of the slide in the lower door open until
the fire has burned up well,—that is, it should begin to look red on the
top,—then close the slide.

In extremely cold weather the fire must be shaken down at night, and a good bed
of coal put on. It is better to do this in the early part of the evening, so
that the house may be comfortable. Sometimes, in very cold weather, weather, it
may be necessary to have the slide in the lower door opened a tiny bit. In this
case it will be advisable to put on a couple of hodfuls of coal in the middle
of the day.

One should keep old gloves, a cap, and some light, loose overgarment to wear
when attending to the furnace.

See "Care of the Range" for explanation of dampers, drafts, and checks.

The furnace must be supplied with all the fresh air that it can heat. The air
enters through the cold-air box, which is opened and closed with a slide which
regulates Fresh air the gow 0f air jf there is much wind blowing for furnace,
outside, the slide should be only partly open; if, on the other hand, there is
little or no wind, the slide should be opened wider.

When the air coming through the registers is cool, it shows that more air is
coming through the cold-air box than can be heated in the furnace; in this case
the slide

Begulat- must be more nearly closed. ing supply J

of cold air. When there is a good fire, and yet but little heat is coming
through the registers, the supply of air is not sufficient, and the slide of
the air-box must be opened.

THE COLD-AIR BOX

When a house is heated by a furnace, the cold-air box is an important adjunct
of the heating system.

It must be remembered that nearly all the warm air that is driven through the
pipes must come from out of doors impor- through the cold-air box; part of the
air is drawn, tance of also, from the cellar. If the air thus heated and 00^air
circulated through the house is pure, it follows that the atmosphere must be in
a healthful condition, always provided that there is a proper outlet for the
foul and exhausted air. If, on the contrary, the air that passes through the
cold-air box and the air of the cellar are contaminated, the whole atmosphere
of the house will be impure.

The location of the outer opening of the cold-air box, or boxes,—for it is best
that there should be one on each of two sides of the house, when
possible,—demands Location of most careful attention. No matter where or how

COla-EUT

box. the house is built, the cold-air box should be placed only where it may
receive uncontaminated air. It must not open near a drain or cesspool, or near
the opening of a sewer. It should be high enough from the ground to avoid the
drawing in of damp air. Over the outside opening a fine wire netting should be
fastened, and over this a coarser one for the protection of the first. These
nettings should be removed occasionally to admit the long brush used in
cleaning out the box.

A clean box drawing in pure air means health; a dirty box drawing in dust and
impure air means disease.

It seems to me that if one can be sure that the supply of air is pure and the
water-box is kept full, the hot-air furnace, taken all in all, gives the purest
and most healthful atmosphere to a house.

HEATING-STOVES

The management of fires in stoves used exclusively for heating purposes is
practically the same as that of the furnace fire. The fire in a stove should be
raked down and the ashes removed in the morning. ^J^f' Fresh coal should be put
on, and the drafts and fire, damper kept open long enough for the coal to
ignite and the gas to pass off. The stove should then be closed, the damper
always left slightly open to allow all gas to pass up the chimney. This
precaution of leaving an outlet for the gas is necessary with all stoves,
ranges, and furnaces, but with the stove in the living-rooms the greatest
possible care must be taken that there is no chance for the escape of gas into
the room.

The air of a room that is heated by a stove be- Bowl of comes very dry. To
counteract this, a bowl of ""^vTM water should always stand on top of the
stove; ornamental iron vases for this purpose are often supplied with the
stove. The bowl or vase should be washed every morning and refilled with fresh
water.

CARE OF THE RANGE

To get the best possible results from the coal-range it must be treated
carefully and intelligently. Each morning all the ashes should be removed,
leaving, however, 'range. a tmn coating on the top of the oven to protect the
metal and temper the heat in that place. Keep all the flues clear; those under
the oven should be cleaned once a month. The fine ashes, that are carried over
Keeping m *ne current of hot air that passes around and the flues under the
oven, accumulate here, and if not reclear' moved frequently will prevent a free
circulation of hot air about the oven, which, naturally, will refuse to bake.
The ashes, by absorbing heat and impeding circulation, interfere with a proper
heating of the oven.

Every morning, after the ashes have been removed and the fire made, all the
dust should be brushed from every part of the range; it should then be rubbed
off with a damp range!8 paper, and the top polished with a thin coating of
black-lead. Finally the dry blacking-brush should be used to polish every part.

Black-lead should never be put on over dirt, and, indeed, should only be used
when the surface has lost its black look. The polishing should be brisk and
thorough; if not, the bottoms of the saucepans will become soiled. This never
happens when the range is properly polished. Throughout the day, whenever the
range becomes soiled, rub it off with a soft newspaper.

A thorough acquaintance with the drafts and checks is imperative. When the
range is frpe from fire, examine every Knowledge part of & Open and close the
drafts and checks of drafts until you become familiar with their working, and
checks. Learn ^ locati0n of the damper that carries heat and smoke directly
into the chimney-flue. This is often called the smoke-damper, which is the term
that will be used in this book. It is the most important damper in the range,
and the one that causes the most trouble if not properly used.

Learn the direction in which a check or damper at^tovenmust be turned for the
purpose of opening or clos- flues, ing it.

Acquaint yourself with the air-chambers or flues about the oven.

Examine the grate to see how the contents are dumped and the ashes removed
without disturbing the fire.

Learn to make the fire and to regulate it. This may seem difficult at first,
but it is a matter that may soon be conquered, if one goes about it patiently
and intelligently.

Anthracite coal is one of the most difficult fuels for the beginner to manage;
but once having learned its requirements, it will be found one of the most
satisfac- How fa tory and constant of friends. We will begin with manage the
treatment of it. Have all the drafts of the an^aacite range open and all the
checks closed. See that there are no coals, and only a thin layer of ashes, on
top of the oven. Have the ash-box under the grate free from ashes and cinders.

Put a layer of paper, lightly crumpled, in the grate. On this lay sticks of
kindling-wood, placed crosswise upon each other, so that there may be a current
of air through them. On the bed of light wood put To£*k£ a a layer of hard wood
cut rather fine. Cover range, the range, and light the paper. Just as soon as
the wood begins to burn, which will be in two or three minutes, put on a thin
layer of coal, and when this begins to ignite add enough coal to reach within
two inches of the top of the fire-box. Close the smoke-damper, but keep the
draft at the bottom of the grate open until the fire begins to look red; then
close the draft. This fire should do good work for several hours, when another
layer of coal may be put on.

When but little heat is required the drafts may all be closed and some of the
checks opened. When the fire is not How to in use a^ the cnecks should be
opened. This will manage keep the fire smoldering for many hours, ready to
andohectoi **e brought to a brisk heat by the closing of the checks and the
opening of the drafts. By the proper use of the checks and drafts of a range it
is possible to increase or diminish the heat at will. An explanation of the
checks, dampers, and drafts is necessary here.

The damper is a fiat plate of any shape, which when shut nearly—never
quite—closes the opening into that part of the range connected with the
chimney-flue. When 1116the6 °f ^e damper is closed there is a slight drawing of
damper, heat through the flue and up the chimney; when it is open the waves of
heat go directly over the top of the oven and into the chimney. The combustion
of the coal is rapid when this damper is open, and therefore the heat on the
top of the range is very great, the

Although the coal is now consumed rapidly, and the heat it gives out is
intense, it would be impossible to bake in the oven. The top is hot, but the
sides and bottom are cool.

[graphic][merged small]

This is because the great gate, as it were, is wide open, and

the heat rushes out that way instead of going by the long

and circuitous route it would take if the gate

were closed. ^J01 ot

time

This damper should be opened only long enough smoketo get the fire thoroughly
started. If the chim- JjSfflL ney has a good draft this will not require more
opened, than ten or fifteen minutes.

When the smoke-damper is closed the waves of hot air pass over the oven, down
the side, then under it, and up the back to the flue, thus surrounding the oven
with The effect a bath of hot air. The following diagram (Fig. 9a) of opening
shows roughly the course the hot air takes when smoitethe smoke-damper is
closed. A careful study of the diagrams will teach more about the circulation
of the hot air than pages of description could convey. Here we see how the hot
air is doing its full duty, owing to the closed damper, and, also, the waste
that is caused when the air is allowed to escape by the open damper.

The drafts are the doors, or slides, which come below the fire-box. When they
are open a strong current of air passes up through the fire, causing more rapid
combustion than when the air finds its way in lesser quantities through cracks
and small openings.

When the smoke-damper is closed and the drafts are open the waves of hot air
circulate around the oven (see Fig. 9a). If it is desired to have the oven very
hot, these drafts should be opened wide.

[graphic]
[ocr errors]

Closing smokedamper beats the oven.

If a baking heat is required, they should be nearly or wholly closed,
according, of course, to the thoroughness with which the chimney draws, and to
the construction of the range.

The checks are slides in the small door in the front of the range, that is,
higher than the fire-box. When these checks are opened, a current of cold air
passes over the How the fire and ^us retards combustion. Sometimes there

CuGG&S

work. is an extra check or damper in the pipe that connects the range with the
chimney-flue. When the checks are wide open the combustion of fuel is slight,
and the temperature in the oven and on the surface of the range is greatly
lowered.

It will be seen from a study of the drafts and checks that the open drafts 
cause the fire to burn rapidly; that the open checks retard combustion; that
when a hot fire is

To reflate wanted the checks are closed and the drafts opened; combus

tion. that to obtain a moderate heat the drafts are partially or wholly closed;
that the temperature is lowered by partially opening the checks; and that
merely to keep the fire "alive" the drafts should be closed and the checks
opened fully.

SOME POINTS TO REMEMBER IN THE TREATMENT OF
RANGE FIRES

1. To have a fire burn freely there must be a free circulation of air through
the fuel; therefore wood and coal must be put on lightly and in such a manner
that the

^r^pro'p-6 a'r can pass freety through the whole bed. Sticks erly. of wood must
cross, or partially cross, each other. Coal must never be packed down, nor must
it reach to the lids, thus preventing a free circulation of air. TtteTre° 2. A
current of air under the fire causes it to bum burn; the larger and purer the
quantity of air, the briskly. m0re freely the fire burns and the greater the
heat.

3. A current of cold air flowing over the fire, and the absence of a current of
air flowing from the bottom up through the fire, cause it to burn slowly and to

give out but little heat. Effects of

4. When the large damper leading directly into "J^1^ the flue is opened, the
fire burns rapidly, and the under fire, heat passes over the top of the oven,
going immediately into the chimney. Therefore this damper, known as the
smoke-damper, should be closed as soon as the fire begins to burn, usually not
more than ten minutes after the fire has been lighted.

5. When the oven is required very hot, have the drafts open and the checks
closed. When a little lower temperature is required, partially close the
drafts; to reduce the temperature still lower, wholly close Toregnlate

r 7 tempera

them; when an extremely low temperature is re- tore.

quired, open the checks; and, finally, when the fire is not in use, open all
the checks. This care of dampers, drafts, and checks will insure a high or low
temperature when you desire it. It will save you from tormenting yourself and
the fire by continual shaking, poking, and piling on of coal. It will also save
valuable time, strength, and material.

6. Keep all the oven-flues free from fine ashes. Kemoving Empty the ash-pan of
the range and replace it be- *116 ashes. fore you make the fire. Remember that
the ashes will absorb a good part of the first heat of the fire.

7. Never let the fire burn up to a white heat. The coals are exhausted in this
way before they have had time to do their work. Watch the fire, and as soon as
the To preveilt coals begin to look red, close the drafts, unless a fire
burnvery hot fire is required at that time. Avoid shak- ^^eat ing down the
fire, thus packing the coals and cutting off a free passage of air through
them. If you do not have a grate that cuts the bottom from the fire, use a
poker to remove the ashes from the bottom of the grate.

8. It must be remembered that a bed of coal that is too

shallow will not burn; it should be at least seven inches deep;

„ „. , but on no account should the coal come to the top Depth of a

bed of coal, of the fire-box.

9. An anthracite coal fire should not be stirred Sfixes1S on toP* Bituminous
coal fires often require a little stirring when a hot fire is wanted. 10. When
one cooks with wood, a bed of clear coals for broiling may be obtained by
filling the stove with hard wood, Preparing and shutting all the dampers that
the wood may

afOT°broi£e burn slowly- The oven w"l be in g°0& condition ing. for baking with
this slow, even fire.

GRATE FIRES

The combustion of the grate fire is regulated by a back damper, and a blower,
or "apron."

When the back damper is opened, and the blower or apron

in place, the air is drawn under and through the fuel, and

passes out by way of the chimney-flue. Under

Use of these conditions the combustion is rapid and the damper r and blower.
heat great, but much of this heat goes up the

chimney. Therefore, as soon as the fire is ignited,

the blower should be raised and the damper closed. If this

is done while the coals are still black on top, you will have a

fire that will grow bright and hot gradually, and that will

last the greater part of the day.

Samedirec- ^e directions given for making the range fire tionB apply will apply
also to the grate fire. t°frelte The grate should be kept black, and the hearth
clean and bright.

Don'ts

1. Don't stir a hard-coal fire on the top.

2. Don't pack the coal.

3. Don't let the coal come to the top of the lining of the fire-box.

4. Don't let the ashes remain in the ash-pan to absorb the heat.

TO REMOVE CLINKERS

When clinkers adhere to the lining of the fire-box, they may be easily removed.
Put a thick bed of oyster- or clamshells on the red-hot fire. The heat converts
the shells into quicklime, which loosens the clinkers. If the shells are not to
be had, put a few pounds of quicklime on the fire. In the morning, when the
cinders and ashes are removed, the clinkers may be detached from the lining by
a few light blows of the poker. If any still adhere, do not use force, but try
the shells or lime again the next day.

The reason why there are clinkers at all in the range is because the fire has
been allowed to burn up to a white heat. Proper attention to the fire, and a
care to remove all substances from the lining of the fire-box every morning,
thus keeping it smooth, will prevent this annoyance.

[ocr errors]

CHAPTER VIII

TABLE SERVICE

General arrangements of the table. The breakfast-table. The dinnertable. The
luncheon-table. The tea-table. Waiting on the table. Ceremonious entertaining.
Some points on table etiquette. The duties of the waitress. Protecting the
table from hot dishes.

On the proper table service much of the comfort, cheerfulness, and refinement
of the family depend. No amount of lavishness and perfection in the preparation
of the food will compensate for poor arrangements and service in the
diningroom. The most perfect order, and yet the greatest freedom, should exist.
Table manners and service are an excellent gage of the refinement of a family
and of a people.

There are certain definite rules which should be followed in all households,
from the very simplest to the most Unwritten sumPtuous. Then, there are
unwritten laws of laws of good breeding which will naturally lead people of
goodbreed- innate refinement to be careful, in act and speech, to do nothing at
table which could give offense to the most fastidious.

It is the duty of every one to do his or her part to make the time passed at
table as bright and full of cheer as possible. The worry, haste, lack of
conversation, and often the ill temper shown at table have much to do with the
national disease known as dyspepsia.

The dining-room should be well lighted and well ventilated. The chairs should
be comfortable, with backs that are almost straight, and they should be
absolutely firm and strong. The table should be broad; it is nearly ^ntiia-*
impossible to arrange a narrow table elegantly. tion.

No matter what the style of living may be,— and this applies to the simplest as
well as the most should elaborate households,—there should always be a always
be care to make the table and food pleasing to the tractive, eye.
Well-laundered table-linen, tableware that has been properly washed and wiped
and that is arranged in an orderly manner, are the strongest factors in making
a table elegant and attractive. A few flowers loosely arranged, a bunch of
ferns, or a small plant or fern will adorn and brighten a table more than any
other one thing that can be used. Such decorations are in place on the humblest
or the most sumptuous tables.

The table-linen should be of as fine a quality as one's purse will allow. The
oftener a good piece of linen is laundered, the more beautiful it grows, so
that a good mate- TaHe.linen rial is always cheap in the end. If the
table-linen must be is of a fine, heavy quality, it should not be starched.
weJer|j^un° If, however, it is thin, it will require a very little starch to
give it body. (See " Table-linen," under " Laundry.")

It would be impossible to give rules for table service that would apply to all
families, but there are certain fundamental principles which must be observed
in any well-ordered home. In the sections on the " General Arrangements of the
Table," "Waiting on the Table," and "The Duties of the Waitress" these
principles are embodied. When one has made herself mistress of these methods,
it is not a difficult matter to enlarge upon or abbreviate the table service,
as special occasions and one,s manner of living may demand.

Ceremonious occasions call for special service; Specialserthe sections on
company dinners, luncheons, 7106'

suppers, etc., will aid the housekeeper in mapping out such entertainments.

It must never be forgotten that the personality of the mistress of the house
should be felt in all the appointments of her table, both in the intimacy of
her family, Sity o?the and on more formal occasions when she entermistress,
tains her friends.

Certain rules that are understood and observed by all well-bred people, the
world over, cannot be changed; but decorations and the minor services should
have a distinct individuality.

GENERAL ARRANGEMENTS OF THE TABLE

As far as it relates to the table, there is one point in the dining-room that
may be regarded as the center. The chandelier is usually this point. The center
of the table should come exactly under the center of the chandelier.

The first proceeding in the laying of the table is the placing of the thick
cloth, either felt, double Canton flannel, or one of the many thick materials
that are made

dSL.1** for tnis purpose. When this under-cloth is smoothly in place, spread
the linen cloth over it, taking care to have the crease in the middle of the
cloth come exactly in the middle of the table, and crossing the crease of the
cross-fold precisely at the center. The lines of the table being true, next put
the plates in position. If you cannot measure accurately with your eye, use
toeplatei. a yardstick to determine the distance between the plates, which
should be at least twenty inches. When the plates are correctly placed it will
be easy to arrange the table symmetrically. The center ornament should next be
put in place, and after that the silver and glass.

Place knives and spoons at the right of the plate, having the ends of the
handles near the edge of the table, the sharp edge of the knives toward the
plate, and the inside of the bowls of the spoons turned up. The forks should be
at the left side of the plate, with the inside turned up. Knives Place the
glasses at the right of the plate, the forks, and water-glass just coming to
the point of the knife. Bosses. If carving-cloths are used, arrange them before
^p]^ the plates are put on the table. Fresh napkins may be put on the plates,
or at the left-hand side of the plates; the napkins in rings go at the side of
the plates.

Individual salt-cellars are the most satisfactory,, provided there are small
spoons to go with them. In any case, whether individual or large salt-cellars
are used, there must be a small spoon for each salt-cellar. The individual
salt-cellars are placed at the top of the plates, the large ones at the corners
of the table, or at the sides, where they may be within reach of several
people. It is a saving of time for the waitress if water carafes are used.
There should be one carafe to every three or four people. A bowl of crushed
ice, if ice is served, and a spoon should be placed near the carafe.

THE BREAKFAST-TABLE

The arrangement of the breakfast-table is after the general plan already given.
If fruit and mush are served, there should be a fruit-knife and teaspoon at the
side of each plate with the knife. Finger-bowls and fruit-doilies should always
be provided when fruit is served. rangement

Warm dishes for the mush, and a tablespoon of the with which to serve it, may
be set before a mem- brtabie.St" ber of the family.

Cups and saucers, sugar, cream, and rests for the hot coffee and milk, should
be placed in front of the mistress of the house. Knife, fork, and spoons may be
placed at the head of the table for serving the substantial dishes, and small
butter-plates and butter-knife may be set near the butter-dish. If there should
be griddle-cakes, waffles, or fried mush, an extra set of knives, forks, and
hot plates must be ready for this course.

THE DINNER-TABLE

In preparing the table for dinner follow the general directions for arranging
the table. The carving-set and knifeand-fork rests may be laid at the carver's
place; the soupladle goes at the place of the mistress.

Oil and vinegar bottles should be placed on small doilies at one side of the
table, or, when the service is ample, they may be brought to the table when
needed.

The dishes for the various courses must be arranged in the pantry or on the
sideboard. The bread for this meal may be laid in the fold of the napkin, or
passed when the soup is served, or, if the service is limited, the plate of
bread may be placed on the table.

THE LUNCHEON-TABLE

The arrangement of this table is practically the same as already given in the
general directions, with the addition of the proper articles for serving the
food appropriate to this meal.

THE TEA-TABLE

The tea-table should be bright and cheery. For this meal dainty china and
sparkling glass and silver are specially The tea- desirable. All the articles
for making and servtabie ing the tea should be placed beside the plate of
attractive mistress- This includes tea-cups and saucers, sugar, cream, tea-pot,
hot-water pot, and slopbowl. If the tea is to be made at the table, the
tea-kettle, filled with boiling water, should be in place, and the lamp under
it should be lighted just as the family sit down to the table.

The substantial dish, be it hot or cold, should be placed at the end of the
table, opposite the tea service. As this meal usually consists of tea, bread
and butter, Arrange. cold meat or some hot relish, cake and some form ment and
of cooked or preserved fruit, the food may be ste^Jfdof placed on the table
before the family take their places. When the usual tea is replaced by a hot
supper, it is necessary to have warm plates, and to change the plates when the
sweets are served.

WAITING ON THE TABLE

The waitress should stand at the back of the mistress, or while the meat is
being carved at the back of the carver. She should take each plate, as it is
ready to serve, in her right hand, and place it before the person waitreifc for
whom it is intended.

If vegetables or a sauce are to be served with the meat, they should follow as
quickly as possible, the waitress passing the dishes on a tray, or holding them
in her How the hands. She must go to the left side of the per- waitress

son served, and hold the dishes so low that one s^u serve

dishes.

can serve one's self with ease.

Everything is served at the left, except water and other liquids that must be
poured into a glass. All soiled dishes should be removed from the left.
Sometimes this is done from the right.

The plate of soup, fish, meat, etc., should be placed in front of the person
served, not held for him to take. The waitress should hold all large dishes in
her hands, and pass small ones on a tray.

At a dinner or luncheon, before serving the dessert, everything except the
glasses, olives, confectionery, and fruit must be removed, and the table must
be brushed free from crumbs. The best implements for doing Wha^e8ha11 this are
a small tray, and a broad-bladed knife removed, like a fish-knife. This knife
should be used gently and lightly, so as not to injure the texture of the fine
damask. Pieces of bread, or any fragments that may have fallen on the table,
are to be lifted with this knife and put on the tray.

The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. When one has finished a
course, the knife, fork, or spoon should be placed in the center of the plate.
If two pieces of silver have been used, they should be placed

knUe°for^ s^e by s^e uPon *ne plate, notat an angle to each and spoon other,
that there may be no danger of accidents Whha °n6 when the plate is lifted. The
waitress should not finished, attempt to take more than two such plates at a

time. The large dishes should be carried out in Dishes the hands. Small dishes
may be placed on a tray be piled one and *nus carried out, but they should
never be on another. piled one upon the other. Unless the carver is

careful to place the carving-knife and -fork in a secure position, it is best
to avoid all possibility of accidents by removing them on the tray.

In order to make the various changes quickly, it will be found a great
convenience to have a large table in the pantry off the dining-room, where the
dishes may be placed as they are removed from the table. If there is a second
person here, who can sort the dishes and put them aside as rapidly as they are
brought out, matters will be much simplified.

CEREMONIOUS ENTERTAINING

When entertaining ceremoniously, the hostess has many things to consider. If
your friends drop in unexpectedly, or

come frequently and without ceremony, it is true hospitality to give a cordial
welcome and share with them that which was provided for your own family. A
considerate person would feel very uncomfortable if he manner felt or knew that
his hostess had been incom- andforemoded by his arrival. When one sets a time
for. JjJepartrf entertaining one,s friends it is another case, hostess an From
the time your guest enters your house until Jjj^JjjJ °f he departs you are
responsible for his comfort tality. and happiness, and by your forethought and
care everything that can be done toward that end should be done.

The first consideration is the selection of your guests. They must be people
who are congenial to each other, or, if there are strangers, care must be taken
that they are all people whom you have reason to think Cj"^~^ would be
congenial. guests that

Having settled upon your guests, your next step th^ is to provide the best
entertainment that your genial. means and style of living will permit. Nothing
can be in worse taste than to attempt to entertain in the same manner in which
your friends entertain, if they are richer or poorer than yourself.

Never attempt more than you can do well with the appliances and help at your
command. A simple dinner of three courses, where everything is of the best
quality, Tobeaguc_ perfectly cooked and served, and where the hos- cegB a,^.
tess is at her ease, is more likely to be a sue- nermustbe cess than an
elaborate dinner, badly prepared and served, with a hostess distrait and
embarrassed. Of course, if money is no consideration, and one has a
wellequipped household, entertaining may be an easy matter for the hostess, if
she has the true spirit of hospitality, and understands how to select her
guests and control her forces. For the woman with but one servant, or the one
who does her own work and who must make every dollar count, it is another
matter. At the same time, this latter class should not deprive themselves and
their friends of one of the most delightful pleasures of domestic life. If such
moderate women will make it a rule to entertain simply and means may in
accordance with their purses and mode of life, simply and they will give and
receive a great deal of pleawell with sure.

limrtedser- Fashion changes in the manner of dinner-giving, as in everything
else. Formerly the company dinner was, with its numerous courses and long hours
at table, a thing to be dreaded as much by the guest as by the hostess. To-day
the dinner is much simpler, and generally much more successful as a gastronomic
and social affair.

In this country the order of a simple company dinner is about as follows. The
first course is oysters or clams on the half-shell, or canapes of sardines,
caviar, or some

Proper sue- 0ther light relish; or the dinner may begin with cession of © * J &

the soup. This is followed by the fish, with which

a sauce is served, and, of course, bread. Some hostesses serve potato in some
form with this course.

The next course, releve, may be either a joint of butcher meat or poultry,
roasted, boiled, or broiled, and one vegetable. If the fish was boiled or
baked, and served with a sauce, the releve may be omitted, and the entree come
next. Following the entree may come a water-ice, half frozen, or a cheese
course or vegetable course. After this course, roast or broiled poultry or
game, with a salad which is to be eaten with it, is served. The salad may be of
lettuce, sorrel, chicory, cresses, etc., with French dressing, or it may be of
crisp white celery with mayonnaise dressing. Some light, cold, sweet dish may
form the dessert. The dinner should be finished with small cups of strong black
coffee, which may be served in the dining-room or in the drawing-room. Cream
and sugar should be passed with the coffee. This would be considered by many
dinner-givers as too simple an entertainment; but if it is well cooked and
served it will be an elegant and satisfactory one.

The dinner is usually given at night, and it must be remembered that the
lights, guests, and attendants soon exhaust the oxygen of the air, therefore
the ventilation of the dining-room must be carefully at- tanee of tended to,
and it must be seen that no one is ex- good venposed to a draft. The heating
apparatus, too, \ must be regulated; the amount of heat coming dinner.

into the room should be diminished after the BooTMTM118*

not be too

guests are seated. An overheated room and bad warm, air will make a failure of
the finest dinner.

A synopsis of the method of serving the dinner may be helpful to the beginner.

1. Raw oysters, or other hors-d,ceuvre, are served on special or small plates,
which are placed in the Synopsis of plate already before the guest. method of

2. Oyster-plates removed, and soup placed be- JJjjS* fore each guest.

3. Soup-plates removed.

4. Plate with fish placed before each guest.

In serving each course, the waitress removes the empty plate of the previous
course with the left hand, and places the plate for the succeeding course with
the right hand.

The sauce, if not served with the fish, is passed; also the vegetable, if there
is one.

5. Fish-plate removed, and the releve served, sauce and vegetable being passed.

6. Cheese course, or half-frozen ice served in glasses.

7. Roast or broiled game or poultry, with dressed green salad. If one wishes a
vegetable, that may be served here also, or the vegetable may follow in a
course by itself.

8. Brush the table, and serve the dessert.

9. Serve the coffee. Some hostesses have the coffee served in the drawing-room.

If fruit is served, there must be fruit-knives and -napkins.

Fruit- Many hostesses do not have finger-bowls brought

knives and to f^e table unless fruit has been served. -naplonB,

also finger- No food that will leave a pronounced odor on bowls. hands, as
celery, for example, should be served wMohwill at a ceremonious dinner. Bread
should be supleave odor plied to the guests from the beginning of the

Tnd?8 dinner t0 the dessert.

Bread The custom of serving cheese with crisp bread,

served like pulled bread, for example, or crackers, as a

'outtiie" last course is very much in favor with some

dinner. dinner-givers. The crackers or bread should be

crisp and fresh and the cheese the best of its kind.

• SOME POINTS ON TABLE ETIQUETTE

The proper attitude at the table is an erect one; there should be no leaning
against the back of the chair; neither should one rest one's arms on the table
nor crowd At?abfee.at or incommode one's neighbor.

Avoid making a noise in masticating your food or in drinking.

When a dish is handed around, serve yourself promptly and with a care not to
mar the appearance of the food.

When asked your preference as to the portion of the joint, answer at once, and,
if you have one, express your Accept- preference. There is nothing more
annoying to aneeoffood a carver than to have to wait while some one deserved
liberates as to his choice in this matter. Whenever possible, one should be
content with what has been served him. At the family table it is perfectly
proper to ask that too rare or too well done a piece of meat be changed for one
better done or more rare, as the case may be, and it is the duty of whoever
serves the food to ascertain the tastes of each individual, and, as far as he
is able, to satisfy them. On the other hand, each member of the family should
cultivate a habit of consideration and appreciation, and not be too capricious
or exacting. There are people who invariably come to the table in a crit- aiiii
^ ical and fault-finding mood, often refusing the of faultfood at the home
table that they compliment at ^^jjJI at the table of a friend or order at a
hotel or restaurant. These thoughtless fault-finders can never estimate the
amount of mental discomfort they inflict upon those that are dearest to them,
or the burden of extra labor they put upon the shoulders of mother, wife, or
maid.

When a plate is sent back for a second portion, care should be taken to place
the knife and fork, or spoon, straight on the plate, and a little to one side,
so Position of that there may be no danger of their slipping knife and off, and
a part of the plate shall be ready to re- t0foTM ceive the food. If, as is the
case in some houses, there is a knife-rest beside each plate, let the tips of
the knife and fork rest on this, and send the free plate to the server.

One should be careful not to eat so rapidly Meals that the food may not be
properly masticated, or should be that one will have finished while the others
at the table are still eating.

If it is necessary to ask for anything during a meal, one should take the
opportunity of speaking quietly to the waitress when she is near, or wait until
it is possible to catch her eye. speaking

When a meal is announced, go to the table towaitrera. promptly. It is annoying
to the housekeeper and cook to have the meals delayed. It often happens nets in
that a few minutes' waiting may spoil some dish, obeying and, in any case, it
causes a waste of precious J^TMaiB! time to the housekeeper and other members
of the family. Some thoughtless people seem to think that it matters less that
the whole family is kept waiting five minutes or more than that they should
complete the work

which they happen to have in hand. There are many jars and breaks in the
household machinery from this cause alone.

In many households where there is a regular waitress there is a rule sometimes
that nothing shall be handed by members of the family; while in other homes,
even ttwhouse-f wnere there is plenty of service, each member of hold exer- the
family has a watchful care of the needs of the watchM other persons at the
table. In the second case care at the atmosphere is more sociable and friendly,
and in 'tofodtO8 family life this care for the wants and comfort of element,
others tends to develop some of the most desirable traits of character,
courtesy, and unselfishness. A certain amount of ceremony should always be
observed, even at the simplest family meal; but when this is carried too far it
crushes sociability and cheerfulness. Form of In offermg to serve any one at
the table use offering one of these forms: "May I help you," "May I

86 table ^ 0ffer tor "send"] vou," "Let me Sive vou," etc"Will you have," is a
form that should be used

only by the waitress.

The mistress of the house usually pours the tea and

coffee. She should always ask if her guests take sugar and

cream. To the minds of many people the flavor

PteaorS of tea or coffffee is much improved if the hot beverage is poured on
the cream and sugar. The hostess must be careful to inquire just how much sugar
and cream the guest takes, and he should be equally careful to state the
amount. The sugar and cream should Upon little ^e nanded with the beverage, so
that each one may matters add more, if he desires. These little matters are
perfection necessa]T, because upon them depends the perfection of his cup of
tea or coffee, a consideration by no means unimportant to the habitual tea- or
coffeedrinker.

The spoon should never be left in the cup. The knife

and fork should be placed straight on the plate

after using, and side by side. Toothpicks, like Hs^Xe

tooth-brushes, should be used only in the privacy leaveknife,

of one's room. It is extremely important that fojJ^0TMd

children should be well trained in all these little Where a

points, since the habits of youth are apt to follow tyrtMj*

'.... J * should be

one through life. nsed.

THE DUTIES OF THE WAITRESS

The personal appearance of the waitress requires special attention. She should
not be too large or too old. She should be trim in her appearance, quiet in
manner, and light of foot. Her dress should always be apTMearclean and well
fitting, and her apron, collar, and anee and cuffs spotless.

Fashion at present decrees that the waitress should wear a black dress, white
collar and cuffs, a white apron, and a small white cap. In many well-regulated
households, however, the waitress wears a light print dress, a fashion which
must always commend itself, because it means freshness and cleanliness. The
waitress should wear boots with soft soles, or slippers, that she may move
about the dining-room noiselessly.

She should understand her duties so well, and Theattenbe so attentive to the
wants of the family, that Waitress it should not be necessary to ask for
anything during a meal, unless a special taste that could not ordinarily have
been anticipated is to be gratified.

During a ceremonious dinner or luncheon it is particularly important that all
the service should be rendered without a word being exchanged between mistress
and maid. This can be accomplished only by seeing that the maid has a clear
understanding of all that is required, and that she is watchful of each guest.
If she is in the daily habit of discharging these duties carefully, she will be
in proper training for the more formal occasions. It takes constant practice to
arrive at perfection.

The regular duties of the waitress, as they re

Eeguiar la^e ^0 ^e dining-room and its accessories, are duties of . . B'

waitress, quite varied.

The waitress sharpens the carving-knives.

When a meal is ready she announces it. The method of

making this announcement varies with the habits of the

family and the style of living. If it is the custom

cingmeais. of *ne family to gather in the living-room or

drawing-room before each meal, the waitress

comes to the door, and, addressing the mistress of the house,

says, "Dinner" (or whatever the meal may be) "is served."

When the family is large and scattered at meal-times, and

the service is limited, the meal is announced by means of a

bell or gong. In this case the bell or gong should be as

musical as possible.

The other duties of the waitress may be enumerated as

follows:

1. Before breakfast she should air and dust the diningroom, and if there is an
open fire there she should make

that, brushing and washing the hearth. tioMfor 2- ^ne should then place the
plates and servingbreakfast, dishes to warm.

3. Set the table. 4. Prepare the butter, cut the bread, draw the cold water,
and place the breakfast on the table. If, as is the case in most families, she
is not required after the coffee and substantial part of the meal have been
served, she may leave the dining-room and attend to other duties.

If but two maids are kept, the waitress then goes up-stairs and puts the beds
and sleeping-rooms to air. After this her own breakfast will be ready.

5. When the family meal is finished the table should be cleared in this manner:
Have a tray on which to gather all the silver and knives, care being taken to
keep the Preparasilver separate from the steel knives. In the pan- tion for try
put the knives in a pitcher of water,—the water ^j^B must not reach the
handles,—and the silver in a

similar pitcher of water. There are pitchers that come in tin for this purpose.
Place all the small articles on the tray, carry them into the pantry, and sort
the dishes, rinsing them oft* under the cold-water faucet. Pile them, each with
its own kind, on one part of the table. Fill empty milk and cream pitchers with
cold water, and set them aside to soak.

6. Return to the dining-room and brush the setting crumbs from the table-cloth.
Remove the cloth ainingand fold it, being careful to lay the folds in the r0^
jerin old creases. Do this as carefully as possible, so as

not to wrinkle the cloth. Put away the table-cloth and napkins. Dust and air
the dining-room.

7. Go back to the pantry and wash the dishes Washing as directed under " Care
of Tableware." As soon b^^8t as the milk and cream pitchers are washed, fill

them with boiling water, and let them stand until all the work in the pantry is
finished.

8. Wipe the pantry shelves, and examine the receptacles

in which bread, cake, sugar, etc., are kept. See that they

are clean and that the food is in good condition.

Make a list of articles that are needed. Wash the Se^n£^1e

pantry in

tables, sink, dish-pans, towels, and dish-cloth, and order. hang the towels and
dish-cloth out to dry. Sweep the pantry floor, and if there are any soiled
places on it, wipe them with a cloth wrung out of hot water, wiping with a dry
cloth.

9. The noonday meal, whether it is luncheon or The noondinner, will require
warm dishes. The dishes to be day meaL warmed should be put in the heater at
least half an hour before serving the meal. The waitress should see that the
diningroom is properly heated in winter, and that the shades are arranged to
make a pleasant light. The table should be set, the bread, butter, and water
prepared, and the meal served on time. If there are to be salads, cheese,
fruit, etc., for this meal, the waitress usually prepares them. She also has
charge of the pickles, olives, sardines, potted meats, fruits, and similar
dainties.

10. Dinner, as a rule, comes in the evening, and requires special care on the
part of the cook and waitress. Warm dishes for the hot food and cold dishes for
the

Hot plates coj,j f00(j are invariably needed for this meal. It ana cold

plates. is of the greatest importance that the waitress should understand the
necessity of serving hot food on well-warmed plates, and cold food on
absolutely cold plates. A cold plate will quickly absorb the heat from soup,
sauce, meat, or fish, while a warm plate, by imparting its own heat, will ruin
a food that should be served cold. At the same time, care must be taken to
avoid going to the extreme of having the plates so hot that they are difficult
to handle or will mar the surface of the table.

The bread for dinner is cut thick. If the loaf is a square one, the slices are
divided into two or four parts, according to the size of the loaf. Slices from
the round annex?1 French loaf are not subdivided. Bread for the

other meals should be cut in thin slices. Since the duties of the waitress vary
with the habits and circumstances of the family, I have attempted to give only
such duties, and the methods of performing them, as are

vices of the a part of worlc of a trained butler or waitress, waitress but
which form part of the work that any general 'modeM)?1 nousemaid is often
required to do. If the maid living. is thoroughly trained in the duties here
outlined, it will be an easy matter for either mistress or maid to extend or
reduce them.

The waitress is made responsible for the silver, glass, and china, and she is
expected to keep them clean and intact. To do this she must have proper
appliances. There must be a place for everything, and everything jjJf^JjJlJ?
must be kept in its place. Ample closet-room siblefor should be provided, that
there may be no need of crowding the china, etc., or of piling a great many
china, delicate dishes one upon another. There should be tables in the pantry,
so that when the dining-table is being cleared it will not be difficult to
dispose of the dishes. The sink must be so broad and the water-faucets so high
that there shall be no danger of striking the dishes against the projecting
faucets. If the sink is narrow and the faucets low, there should be a large
tray of galvanized iron, which should be placed on a table, to hold the
dish-pan. This precaution will be found to lessen greatly the danger of
breakage. Having plenty of hot water, soap, and towels, and all other
appliances, the waitress must do her part to protect the tableware, etc.,
committed to her charge. She should always observe the following rules:

1. The water into which the glass or china is ^'er^a6 put first must not be too
hot.

2. A few pieces only must be put in the pan at a time, and heavy pieces should
never be placed on small or delicate ones.

3. Each piece should be wiped with care, and pressure on fragile articles of
glass or china should be avoided.

4. Care should be taken that no sharp, hard substance, like a grain of sand, is
on the table or dish-cloth, or in.the dish-pan.

5. Delicate glass and china must not be exposed to extremes of heat or cold;
as, for instance, a hot substance should not be put in a cold dish, or a cold
substance, like a frozen mixture, must not be put into a dish that has not been
gradually chilled.

A scrupulous observance of these little points will save a world of trouble and
expense.

PROTECTING THE TABLE FROM HOT DISHES

Food that should be served hot requires warm plates and serving-dishes, that it
may lose none of its heat while being served and eaten. The serving-dish should
be a little warmer than the plates.

As heat mars varnished and other polished surfaces, the table must be protected
by some substance that will prevent

it from being reached by heat. The thick covers Fimder1 are P^aced un(ler the
table-cloth are usually

covers. made of cotton, a material which is not a good

non-conductor of heat. If, instead of this kind of cover, one of thick flannel
is used, the chances of excessive heat passing through to the table would be
greatly diminished. I should advise a thick flannel cover for a handsomely
polished table-top.

Thick mats placed under platters and other hot dishes are a protection. Tiles
are often used for this purpose, but

they absorb the heat from the dish and transmit

it to the table. If, however, the tiles are set on

little feet, or are in a frame which raises them from the table, they are a
sufficient protection. Tiles are not satisfactory supports for a platter on
which the joint, or any other piece that is to be carved, rests, as the dish is
apt to slip about on the glazed surface. A thin pad of flannel may be covered
with a linen slip and placed under the carving-cloth.

For coffee-pots, tea-pots, hot water, etc., there should be a broad tile or a
slightly raised wire frame. On this place

a thin flannel pad covered with a linen slip. The fortea?and ^annel *s
necessary between the tile or wire frame, coffee-pots, as it conserves the heat
in the vessel set upon it.

If, for example, the tea- or coffee-pot is placed directly on the cold tile, it
parts with its heat rapidly, so that in protecting the polish of one's table
one must not lose sight of the fact that a beautifully polished surface is a
costly luxury indeed if, for the sake of preserving it, one's food and drink
may never be kept at a proper temperature. But with the pads of non-conducting
material, and with tiles or some other supports that are raised sufficiently to
allow a current of air to pass between them and the table, food may be kept hot
and the polish of the table preserved at the same time.

CHAPTER IX

MARKETING

The muscular system. Some characteristics of the muscular flesh of animals. The
minor parts of the animal. Game and poultry. Care and purchase of general
supplies.

This subject is so comprehensive that a whole volume would hardly cover it;
therefore in one short chapter there must be many things that are not even
touched ^apter^ upon. The housekeeper needs clear, concise explanations of the
best methods of identifying the materials that enter into the daily menu, and
this has been attempted in this chapter.

In most households the item of butchers' meat is often much heavier than it
need be, because of ignorance on the part of the housekeeper. Every woman whose
place is at the head of a house should know, at least, where the different cuts
come from, both tender and tough, what proportion of bone there is to meat, why
the quality varies in different sections of the animal, what treatment the
different cuts should receive, etc. Once having learned this, the housekeeper
will order intelligently and get most satisfactory results. How to ac- It *s
not possible to learn from books all that quire a one should know on this
subject, but with study rfmarket- at nome, frequent visits to the market, any

ing. woman may in time master this important branch of household economy. The
intelligent butcher is always glad to aid his customers in acquiring this
knowledge, for it is to his advantage as well as to theirs. The intelligent and
just customer knows what she wants, and appreciates good service, while the
woman who has no knowledge of the subject is more difficult to serve.

One should not attempt to learn too much at once; confusion of ideas and
discouragement will ^*£p£f be the result of such a course. If the beginner ing
to will carry out the following program she will have ^JS^ a comprehensive
knowledge of the subject at the once, end of six months.

1. Study the anatomy of the animal so as to know how to locate all the bones.
(See Fig. 10.)

2. Study the muscular system, that the position of the muscles and tendons may
be clear in the

mind. This will help to an understanding of how 0f study, the meat should be
cut so that the slices shall be across the grain. (See Fig. 14.)

3. Study the change of position of bones and muscles in the hind quarter, as
shown in Figs. 15 and 16.

4. Become familiar with the interior of a side of beef (Fig. 17), noting the
position of the spine, ribs, sternum, kidney, suet, and tenderloin.

5. Study the outline of the outside of the side of beef (Fig. 18), the position
of each cut, and its relation to the bones of the skeleton. Look at Fig. 14,
and from that locate in each cut the direction in which the muscles run.

One should become familiar with the texture Color gim and color while studying
the bones and muscles of and'text-' the animal. There are certain things that
can be "^gTM^4 learned only by personal observation. For exam- tion and ple,
one judges of the freshness of fish by the col- superior, texture, and odor;
but an inexperienced person finds it difficult to distinguish between a fresh
and a stale

odor, and who can describe it? So it is in countless little points in which
observation and experience are the best teachers, therefore make frequent
visits to the market.

The ox has been taken to illustrate the anat

ihe ox

nsed to il- omy and muscular system of the animal, but all

lustrate ^he 0ther animals from which we get butchers' muscular ,

system and meat are constructed on the same plan. The of'theani sma^er ammals
are not divided into so many malsfrom parts, and the immature animals, like
veal and which we lamb, have less fat and hard bone, but more carere'meat"
tilage; therefore some portions that are tough in the mature animal are tender
in the immature animal. Hence certain joints that, when taken from beef or
mutton, require cooking slowly for a long time to make them tender, may, when
taken from lamb or veal, be cooked by the quicker methods, such as roasting or
broiling. Take, for example, the neck or breast of any animal. To save
confusion by a multiplicity of diagrams, a side of mutton has been taken to
illustrate the methods of cutting the smaller animals. (See Fig. 24.)

The quality of meat depends upon many things—the age, breed, etc., of the
animal, the amount of exercise, the kind of food, the mode of dressing, and the
time given to ripening.

Beef.—The ox, steer, heifer, and cow yield the meat known as beef. These
animals are dressed at the source of supply, or are sent alive to the local
markets, in well-venknown as tilated and watered cars, where they are dressed.
Chicago- In the last fifteen or twenty years there have been afceet great
changes in the manner of supplying the markets with beef. Previous to that time
it was nearly all dressed in the locality in which it was sold. This meant for
the cattle long, exhaustive journeys in crowded cars. Now the greater part of
the beef is dressed near the source which supplies the cattle, and it goes by
the name of Chicago-dressed beef.

At the outset this method of supplying the market met with opposition.
Naturally, while in an experimental stage many mistakes were made. The beef was
often packed in the refrigerators before all the animal heat had passed off,
and, as a consequence, when it reached the Eastern market it had acquired a
peculiar and disagreeable taste. Sometimes other preservatives than cold were
employed. All this has been changed, and now one cannot ask for anything better
than a joint from a prime Chicago-dressed animal.

At these large establishments they have the best appliances for doing the work
in the quickest, most painless and sanitary manner. They also have methods for
utilizing the tougher and less sought after portions of the animal, sending
East the most marketable portions. This gives a different-looking side from
that of the home-dressed beef, there being less flank and often no neck; but in
the final cutting into joints there is practically no difference from the
homedressed.

The quality of beef, as of all kinds of meat, depends upon the age of the
animal and how fed. Butchers consider that the age between four and eight years
gives the - ^ of best beef. In former years none but "stall-fed beef debeef "—1
e., an animal that was kept for months pendsupon in the barn and fed largely on
grain—was consid- "fnjmai ered prime. This is practically true now. The and how
it flesh is made rapidly, and is shorter grained and hafeaMn more tender than
the grass-fed animal; yet there can be no doubt but that a combination of the
two methods will give a healthier meat, for while the exercise in the open air
tends to toughen the muscles, it also makes them more healthy and of a finer
flavor. It is true of all animals that little exercise and generous feeding
with grain produce tender flesh, which grows plump in cooking.

Beef should hang until well ripened—not less than three weeks, longer when
possible.

Good beef will be firm, fine-grained, the color when first cut a purplish red,
but on exposure to the air for a few minutes becoming a bright red. If the beef
is goodM wel^ ripened it will have a moist, juicy appearance, beet When first
killed, the tiny globules of moisture are absent on the fresh-cut surface. The
fat should be a light straw-color; the kidney suet should be white, firm, dry,
and crumbly. In a prime animal there is a generous layer of fat on the back,
shoulders, and sides, and fine particles of fat distributed through the
muscles; the bones will be small in proportion to the meat.

The fat of poor beef is a dark yellow, the suet oily, tough, and fibrous. The
lean is coarse, open-grained and flabby, Some in and o^en Quite dark.

dicationsof The beef being the largest animal that the poor beef, butcher
handles, it is cut into more joints than is How the the carcass of any other
animal. It is first split °divided8 length 0f tne backbone (spine), thus
dividing the carcass into two parts. These are divided into hind quarters and
fore quarters—the loin, rump, round, leg, and flank going on the hind quarter,
and ribs, shoulder, brisket, cross-ribs, etc., going on the fore quarter; these
quarters are again subdivided.

The division into quarters is practically the same all over the country, but
the subdivision varies in different sections. The New York method is followed
nearly all over the country, except in some parts of New England and
Pennsylvania. When once the anatomy of the animal and the muscular system is
understood, a knowledge of the various cuts and their uses may be acquired
readily.

THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM

The skeleton is covered with a thick layer of muscular fibers; this is known as
lean beef. These muscles are the active organs of movement. There is not a
movement of the body, no matter how slight, that does not require the aid of
one or more sets of muscles. The more active they are, the more freely the
blood flows J^Zj^L through them, and, as a consequence, they are muscle,
healthier than when not exercised. But with exercise they become firmer and
harder. This is seen, for example, in the beef. The legs, sides, shoulders, and
neck are exercised more than the back and the tenderloin, and are therefore
tougher, but also more highly flavored and more nutritious, than the tender and
less-exercised parts.

A knowledge of the structure of the muscular fibers will be valuable in buying,
carving, and cooking meats.

These muscles are composed1 of bundles of hundreds of slender threads, called
fibrils, held together by connective tissue. These little bundles of fibrils
are massed yalue together to form ultimate fibers. The ultimate of a knowfibers
are sheathed by connective tissue. Bundles *edgf of

the struc

of ultimate fiber are, in their turn, massed to- tore of gether and sheathed in
connective tissue to form mnj^ar fasciculi. The fasciculi are bound together to
form what is known as lean meat or muscular fiber. It will be seen from the
foregoing that in lean meat there are three sets of bundles, each set sheathed
in a thin membranous substance called connective tissue.

When lean meat is cooked a long time at the proper temperature this connective
tissue is gelatinized and holds the lean fibers together in a solid, tender,
juicy mass. If, on the contrary, the meat is cooked at too ^q^^ high a
temperature, the connective tissue will be degrees of destroyed, and the pieces
of meat will separate muscular into long, tough, thread-like fibers. In the
fiber, chapter on cooking albuminous substances the principles underlying the
cooking of lean meats are fully

[ocr errors]

treated. No woman can afford to be ignorant on a subject on which depends so
much economy or waste.

Below are cuts of muscular fiber. Fig. 11 shows the arrangement in bundles;
Fig. 12, the fiber partially separated into fibrils; Fig. 13, the fiber cut
across the grain.

From these three examples one can see how important it is that the muscles
should be cut across the grain instead of the length of the fiber, if one would
have tender meat.

We will begin with the skeleton of an ox. In Fig. 10 (a1, a2, a3, a4, a5, a6,
a1) are the vertebrae, which extend from the head to the end of the tail.
Examine the bones of the spine in each section, that you may be able to
recognize them in the cuts of meat that come from these parts, always
remembering, of course, that each bone is ^J^" split into two parts, and that
you find but one Kg. io. half of it in the joint of meat. (The split side is
shown in Fig. 17.) a1 to a2 is that part of the spine belonging to the neck.
Beginning at a2 and going back to a3 are found the joints to which are attached
the six chuck ribs. The projections on these joints are partially hidden by the
shoulder-blade, but they are quite long. Beginning at the point a3 and going
back Fig. 13. to a4 are the joints to which the seven prime

ribs are attached. From a4 to a5 are the joints of the loin. The tenderloin
begins in a small point under the first rib, and it increases in thickness as
it runs back. It finally terminates in an obtuse point at the hipbone. The
tenderloin is covered with a thick bed of suet. The kidneys are embedded in
this at the end near the ribs.

[graphic]

Fig. II. Fig 12.

[graphic]

(See Fig. 17.) It is from this section that the sirloin and porterhouse roasts
or steaks are cut.

The point between a5 and a6 in the New York method of cutting is left on the
sirloin, while in Boston and Philadelphia it is left on the rump. In New York
this cut is New York called the thick or hip sirloin, the hip-bone being method
of cut at the line a6 6. This portion is quite as often differstom cut mto
steaks as roasts, the steak taking the Boston and name of the cut portion of
the hip-bone, as hipP phia61" kone steak, flat-bone steak, and round-bone
steak. (See Figs. 20, 21, 22.)

You will observe the position of the thigh-bone in its relation to the
hip-bone; k indicates the socket in the hip-bone, and I the ball in the
thigh-bone. This is called the whirlWhy it is kone bv butchers, because when
the hind quarter called the of the animal is hung by the leg, as it always is,

Tone1" *n's bone *s wn^ed round, bringing the leg at an angle of about thirty
degrees with the backbone, thus changing the position of the bones and muscles
of the leg. (Figs. 15 and 16 show this change.) Seeing this change in the
skeleton and muscles, it will be easy to understand how and why the hind
quarter is cut in a certain manner when we come to the diagram illustrating
methods of cutting beef. (Fig. 18.) If the carver will study Figs. 15 and 16,
he will learn the position of the bones and direction of the muscles in the leg
or hind quarter of mutton, lamb, veal, venison, etc., and will then know how to
carve so as to cut across the grain of the muscular fibers.

The triangular section at a8 b, a8 b, which takes in the greater part of the
hip-bone, a small piece of the thigh-bone, and a portion of the backbone, is
called the aitchbone in some sections. In New York it is called the rump piece,
and is usually divided into two parts, one taking in the backbone and the other
the hip-bone. These cuts are generally used for corned beef.

[graphic]

The point at a1 is where the aitchbone is divided into two parts. The
thigh-bone below the straight line belongs to the round.

Observe the formation of the shoulder-blade at c and d. The upper part (c) is
thick cartilage, which touches the seventh rib; therefore it does not lessen
the value of this joint; but beginning with the eighth rib there is both bone
and cartilage. Here is where the chuck ribs begin.

A cut that used to be very popular for a cheap roast, steaks, pot-roast,
stewing, etc., was the "cross-rib piece," known also as "shoulder clod,"
"bowler piece." It is still cut by many butchers. Formerly it always contained
the rib-bones, but it is now more usually cut without the bones. e, e, e, e, e,
indicate the position of this cut;/and g are the bones included in a shoulder
of beef; h, the sternum, is the bone in the thick end of the brisket.

Fig. 14 shows a beef with the skin and fat removed, leaving bare the muscular
covering of the skeleton. This should be studied carefully by the marketer and
the carver.

This illustration can be studied for the position and direction of the muscles
in veal, mutton, lamb, and all animals of this kind. It will be observed that
the arrangemuscies. ment of the muscles in the fore quarter is much more
complicated than in the hind quarter. There are more bones to move in this
part; hence the greater number of sets of muscles, and the necessity for their
going in many directions. Each cluster of muscles is finished at the ends with
a smooth, white, tough substance, the tendons, by which they are attached to
the bones. The tendons become gelatinous on being subjected to long, slow
cooking. They are what make the drumsticks of roast poultry and the knuckle of
mutton or lamb, when properly cooked, such delicious, succulent morsels, and
when cooked at too high a temperature, such hard, unsavory food.

Study this cut carefully, observing the direction in which each set of muscles
run. Test your knowledge of the skeleton by trying to locate the different
bones.

Locate the different cuts by the description of Fig. 14.

The cuts of beef may be divided into three qualities:

First quality, the portions suitable for roasting or broiling. These are taken
from the tenderest part of the animal, and bring the highest price.

From the hind quarter are taken the first, second, and third cuts of sirloin,
often called porterhouse (see Figs. 10,

[graphic]

Fig. 15 shows changed position of thigh-bone Fig. 16 shows changed position of
muscles

when the' hind quarter of the animal is hung; when hind quarter is hung ; t is
the point where

i, the point where loin is separated from hip sir- the loin is separated from
the hip sirloin, loin; k, socket; /, balL

14, 17, 18, a1 to a5); or this section is cut up into steaks, which are
variously called sirloin or porterhouse steaks. When there is a large piece of
tenderloin in the steak, it is called a large porterhouse; and when the steak
is cut from the small end of the loin, where there is only a very little
tenderloin, it is called short steak, or Delmonico steak. (See Fig. 23.)

Hip or thick sirloin, known in Boston and Philadelphia as rump (see Figs. 10,
14, 18, a5 to a6), is cut for roasts and steaks.

Portions taken from the hind quarter.

As cut in New York, and wherever the New York method is followed, these roasts
and steaks contain both tender and tough portions. This is particularly true in
the case of the steaks, some butchers cutting the whole length, from the
backbone to the end of the thigh-bone. (See Fig. 18, a8 and b.)

Between a3 and a4, Fig. 18, are the seven prime ribs, the first three called
the first cut of the ribs; but for a small The larger ^amuv two make a
better-sized roast. One should the roast never attempt to roast a thinner piece
than this,

Se result no matter now smau the family. In beef the larger the roast, the more
satisfactory the result.

Second quality. The pieces included in this grade are often used for roasting
and broiling, also for braizing, stewing, pot-roasts, etc.

The best part of the top of the round (g, g, Fig. 17) is often used for steaks,
roasts, pot-pie, boiled, braized, or alamode beef. From a prime animal this is
a most satisfactory piece. There is little, if any, bone (some butchers remove
the thighbone, while others leave it in the round), and only a desirable
quantity of fat.

The eighth and ninth ribs, first cut of the chuck, make a fair roast; the
shoulder-blade should be removed and the piece be firmly skewered. The tenth
and eleventh ribs are often boned, and sold as rib or chuck steaks, or are
rolled, and sold as rolled ribs for roasting, braizing, or pot-roasts. Even the
twelfth and thirteenth ribs are treated in this manner in some markets.
Sometimes these last two ribs and part of the neck are used for Hamburg steaks.

The tougher ribs (ten, eleven, twelve, and thirteen) may be used for braizing
or pot-roasts.

The cross-rib piece makes a good economical roast or steaks. By consulting
Figs. 14 and 18 it will be seen that the muscles of this piece all run in one
general direction. It is an economical cut, being solid meat.

Third quality. The cuts belonging to this class are all much tougher than the
foregoing, and require long, slow cooking. The rump piece (Fig. 14, a6 to a8)
is generally corned where the New York method of cutting is employed. It is cut
in two parts, horizontal with the backbone, thus taking in the thick part of
the hipbone in one piece, and the backbone in the other piece; the latter piece
is the better of the two. By the Boston and Philadelphia methods of cutting, a
portion of this cut goes on the part known as the back of the rump, and is used
for roasts and steaks.

The flank and leg are used for stewing, braizing, soups, etc. The flank has no
bone; the muscles are coarse, loose, and tough; but this piece of meat is very
juicy and has a fine flavor. It is excellent for beef-tea; rolled and stewed or
braized, it makes a good dish

[graphic]
[ocr errors]

serve hot or cold. This piece is sometimes corned, which is a great pity, for
the lean meat is not well protected by fat or bone, and consequently all the
fine juices are drawn out into the brine.

Inside the ribs there is a thin piece of muscle called the skirt. It is
sometimes used for steaks and sometimes for rolling and stewing.

The plate piece or rattle-ran takes in the lower part of the ribs, and is
nearly always used for corning. It is especially good for this purpose, because
the lean meat is well protected with fat. Many people, however, object to it on
account of the bones. When York Method of cutting. this piece of meat

,m L.n ; a3 to at, seven prime ribs; ai to . . 1 J

aft, porterhouse roasts or steaks; at to aft, thick or hip sirloin ; aft to IS
properly COOKeCl a7, tail end of rump ; al to aft, top of rump ; aft to aft, 
round ; alft, leg; r r «. top of sirloin ; c, flank; d, plate piece ; e, navel
i /, /, brisket; g, the bOneS are drawn shoulder; h, cross-rib; t, shin.

[ocr errors]

FIRST CUT.

[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]

a

[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]

out and the hot meat placed under weights. When cold it cuts as smoothly as a
piece of cheese, each slice consisting of alternate layers of fat and lean.
When corned beef is to be served hot, the brisket or rump is a better piece
than the plate piece.

The navel piece is cut from the bottom of the ribs, and has only a small
portion of bone at one end. This is used for corning, stewing, and for soups.

The brisket takes in the ends of the last six ribs and the sternum. There is a
difference of opinion as to choice in the thick end or the thin end of the
brisket. The thick end is the part in front of the shoulder.

The shoulder is that part which is included in the bones /, g, Fig. 10. It is
separated from the ribs and sternum.

By examining Fig. 14 it will be seen that the muscles in this cut do not run in
one general direction, and that there must be many tendons in it; therefore it
should be cooked slowly and for a long time. This cut is good for pot-roast,
stewing, braizing, Hamburg steaks, etc.

The leg and shin of beef are full of tendons, and are more suitable for soups
than for anything else. The long, slow cooking in water dissolves the gelatin,
which gives a consistency and flavor to the soup.

The various kinds of steak cut from beef are:

[merged small][merged small][graphic]
[graphic]

As has been stated, the New York sirloin comes from that part of the animal
which includes the fore part of the hipbone. In my lectures on marketing I have
found

How sir- ^hat the division of hip-bone, flat-bone, and roundloin steaks

are out bone steaks was rather difficult for the average housekeeper to
understand. To make this perfectly clear I have had a drawing made of the
hip-bone, showing the way this bone is cut in each group of steaks (Fig. 19).

When these steaks are cut long, i. e., down the length of the thigh-bone, the
lower part takes a portion of the "top of the sirloin," although why that piece
should be called top when it is the bottom, or sirloin when it is a part of the
round, is incomprehensible.

Fig. 20 shows hip-bone steak; Fig. 21, flat-bone steak; Fig. 22, round-bone 
steak. Compare the bones in these steaks with the divisions of that part of the
hip-bone which enters into them.

Fig. 23 shows short or Delmonico steak. Examine Fig. 10 at a4, where the ribs
and the porterhouse are divided, and you will see the reason for the name
"short steak." It is not possible to cut a long piece of flank on this steak,
the flank has been removed. The name "Delmonico" is derived from the custom of
this house of removing the entire tenderloin from the whole porterhouse cut,
then serving the top as small steaks, the tenderloin being removed for large
fillets or tenderloin steaks.

Fig. 19. Showing Method of Cutting Sirloin Steaks. a, three round-bone steaks —
the poorest; b, three flat-bone steaks — better than round-bone; c, three
hip-bone steaks — the best — has large tenderloin.

In the cut given some of

[graphic]

Fig. 20. Hip-bone steak.

[graphic]

Fig. 21. Flat-bone steak.

The entre-eote steak (between the ribs) is a prime rib roast cut into steaks.
The ribs are removed, but the piece of backbone is left on. This steak is
notmuch used in this country.

The fillet of beef is the tenderloin. When this is taken from a prime beef it
brings a very high price, often a dollar a pound. A great many fillets are sent
from the West, and they sell at a much lower price. They are usually taken from
inferior animals that have been slaughtered for

canning, making beef extracts, soups, etc. This piece of meat is so protected
in the body of the animal that it has but little exercise; therefore it is
tender, but without much flavor or nutrition. The muscles on the outside of the
backbone (Fig. 18, a4 to a5) are finer and firmer,

The difference between the false fillet and the real fillet.

[graphic]

Fig. 22. Round-bone steak.

of better flavor, and more nutritious. This part, when taken from the bones in
a solid piece, is often used instead of the tenderloin. It is called in France
the false fillet; it is much lower priced than the real fillet.

Corned Meat.—At the best, corned lean meat can have but little of its natural
salts and juices left in

it, as the salt draws these out. The better the lean is protected by fat and
bone, the juicier

[graphic]

Fig. 23. Short or " Delmouico " steak.

and finer flavored will be the beef. Always aim to purchase a piece of corned
beef that has a good layer of fat. Corned beef Housekeepers often have a
decided choice as to must not the cut of corned beef that they will use. The
cook rap- thick end of the brisket, the rump piece, and the plate will all, if
from a good animal, be satisfactory, provided they are cooked five hours, with
the water just bubbling at one side of the kettle. Take the finest quality of
corned beef in the world, and let it boil rapidly, and you will have a piece of
meat that will break under the carvingknife into a bundle of hard, dry,
uneatable threads.

Veal.—The best veal is that fed wholly on milk; next comes that fed on milk and
meal; the poorest is that which has been grass-fed. The best age for veal is
when the calf feeding* *s between six and ten weeks old. The flesh of a
well-fed milk calf will be fine-grained, tender, and white, with just a
suggestion of pink. The fat will be firm and white, and there will be a
generous supply of it round the kidneys and on the legs. Calves that are fed on
part milk and part meal are nearly as good as the milk-fed, provided the
feeding is done carefully. The grass-fed calf gives a very poor veal, lean,
dry, and dark; still it is not unsanitary. The veal that comes from a calf that
has been killed too soon—between two and four weeks—will be soft, flabby, and
of a bluish tinge. There should be no sale for such meat, for it is both
innutritious and unhealthful.

Veal is not highly estimated in this country, and since creameries, condensing
factories, and cheese factories are planted in every good grazing section of
the country, the farmers find it more profitable to sell their milk, and
destroy the calves when they are only a few days old. In France, where veal is
valued highly, the greatest care is taken to have it in perfection. The prime
veal is raised in the following manner. The calf is given all the milk it can
take, first from the mother, and as it grows older it has the milk of a second
cow also. When the veal is to be particularly fine, eggs are fed to the calf
the last two or three weeks of its fattening. They begin with one or two eggs,
then increase the number from day to day until they use six or eight a day. The
calf's mouth is opened, and the whole egg, shell and all, is dropped in; the
closing of the mouth crushes the egg, and it is swallowed. When calves are fed
partially on milk and partially on meal, and the eggs are added, the veal is
almost as fine as that of the milk-fed calves. Nowhere else in the world does
one find such veal as is found in France, and no one complains of its
disagreeing with them. All the French veal, however, is not thus carefully
fattened; but where the best is so fine it is difficult to sell a very inferior
article.

The calf is divided into leg, loin, breast, shoulder, neck, flank, head, and
feet. The leg is the most valuable part of the animal. It is cut into slices
for Hc°^f*j6 cutlets, into one solid round piece for fillet; the divided,
thick, tender part is cut into one large, wellshaped piece for fricandeau; a
portion of the leg is sometimes boned and roasted. There is no waste in these
cuts.

The lower part of the leg is very gelatinous, and is used for soups; it is
called a knuckle of veal.

Next in value to the leg is the loin; this cut includes what is known in beef
as the porterhouse, sirloin, and rump, and is divided into roasts and chops.
The neck comprises the thirteen ribs, which are roasted or used as cutlets.

The shoulder is roasted or braized. The breast is roasted, stewed, broiled,
etc.

Mutton.—Good mutton, properly cooked, is one of the most nutritious and easily
digested animal foods. Because of the indifferent quality and improper cooking
of a great deal of this valuable food, many people in this country have a
strong prejudice against it. But if the animal is properly fed and dressed, and
the cook does her duty, no meat can be more savory and appetizing than a roast,
boiled, or broiled piece of mutton.

Mutton is best when the sheep is between the age of three and five years. When
the animal is between one and two years old it is variously termed mutton,
lamb, or InrfCaoodnS yearnng, as happens to be the local custom. mutton. Sheep
that have been pastured on hilly land, where sweet herbs are found, have a
peculiarly fine flavor. The bones should be small; the lean fine-grained, a
rich red, and juicy; the fat firm and white. A lean animal does not produce
good meat. There should be a mustbe thick layer of fat on the back and the
thick part thoroughly of the legs. The neck and shoulders are always

l^good0 fat- Mutton,like beef, should hang long enough to be thoroughly
ripened. In winter this can be from three to six weeks; in summer, except in
cold storage, it is not possible to keep it so long.

The various cuts of mutton are the leg, loin, shoulder, neck, breast, flank.
When the leg and loin make one joint it is called a haunch of mutton. When the
two loins are left together the joint is called a saddle.

Butchers cut long and short saddles. When Tutsof' rumP and a small piece of the
tail are left mutton, on the loins it is called a long saddle. (See Fig. 29.)
When only the loins constitute the piece, it is a short saddle.

Sometimes the ribs and loin are left in one piece; it is then called the rack.
As a rule the first eight ribs and the loin are cut into chops. When the thin
bones of the rib chops are trimmed they are then called French chops. These
chops are a delicate, appetizing dish, but expensive, as the proportion of lean
meat to fat and bone is so small. The loin chops are what in the beef would be
called porterhouse or sirloin steaks. They are more profitable to buy than the
rib chops. The chuck ribs are sometimes cut into chops and the shoulder-blade
removed. These chops have a good deal of meat on them, but it is too tough for
broiling, except in the case of a very tender animal.

The end of the neck near the head is in almostconstant motion in the living
animal; therefore it is tough, but rich in flavor and nutrition. It is the most
desirable part for making broths, particularly for the sick.

If the family is large, the leg is the most economical cut to buy; it costs
more per pound than any other part, but there is very little waste in it. The
fore quarter, with the shoulder-blade removed, makes a good cheap roast for a
large

family. The shoul- from the carcasS. the dottcd u^e from b to rf is f0n0wed, ■

Anr malroa a n\iaar\ small leg- loin ; y, ribs; shoulder; A, A, A, breast. Ti
Ucl IIlaKco a 'Hlcc»p eludes the portion under the shoulder. », scrag end of
the c

[graphic]
[ocr errors]

small roast. The ribs and loin make good small roasts. The shoulder, breast,
and best part of the neck are often used for roasts. They make excellent stews,
pot-pies, etc. The fore quarter or the shoulder alone are sometimes corned.
They are boiled and served like corned beef. For a large The leg is sometimes
cut into thick slices, which family it is are sold as cutlets. If the family is
of good size, buytte*0 it is cheaper to buy a whole leg and have the numwhoie
leg ber of cutlets you wish taken off. Keep the bal

Mdharoit ance of the leS for a few davs and use Jt for pot" cut as you pie,
haricot, or Irish stew, or it may be roasted, if

wlsh' the piece is large enough.

Lamb.—Until the young of the sheep is a year old it is

called lamb. Spring lamb is from six weeks to seven or

The best eight- months old. The best is between three and

age for five months old. The very young lamb is neither

spring fine-flavored nor nutritious, and that which is older lamb. ,

than five or six months has no longer the delicate

flavor and texture which should characterize spring lamb.

The lamb that is in the market in January, February, and

March is valued for its rarity rather than quality, and is

so expensive that it is found only on the tables of the

wealthy.

Young lamb is divided into hind quarter and fore quarter; as it grows older it
is divided like mutton. The lean of the How the lamb should be pink, and the
fat white and delilamb is cate. It spoils quickly, and should be hung only a
few days.

Pork.—The flesh of the hog is variously esteemed. The very fat portions are
always salted, while the lean, except the leg and shoulder, is generally sold
fresh. The ribs and loin are the most desirable parts for roasting and chops.
When the animal is very large and fat the thick layer of fat is taken from the
ribs and loin and is used for salting; this leaves the loin and ribs thin and
comparatively lean, a most desirable condition. The shoulder is sometimes used
fresh

for roasting or boiling. It is not a desirable joint for this

purpose, except in very large families.

Pork, whether fresh or salted, should be above suspicion.

In fresh meat the fat should be firm, clear, and white, and

the lean pink. In the salted meat the fat is some- Porkmnst

times a delicate pink; this is an indication of be above

sweet, healthy pork, but it is more usual to find «TMptofa"P , and must

it without color. be thor

Diseased or measly pork has a dull appearance £JJj£jJ[ and yellowish lumps
through the fat and lean. Such pork should not be sold. If there were no
purchasers it would not be found in the market.

Great care should be exercised in purchasing all kinds of meat, but pork more
than the meat of any other animal must be in a healthy condition, and under no
circumstances should it be eaten unless thoroughly cooked.

SOME CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MUSCULAR
FLESH OF ANIMALS

The flesh of the mature animal is improved by hanging for a long time in a low,
dry temperature. It is more nutritious, more highly flavored, and more
digestible than that of the immature animal, the flesh of which is watery and
gelatinous, and spoils quickly. Consequently in making broths for the sick this
fact should be kept in mind, and the well-exercised muscles of the mature
animal should be used for this purpose. Nearly all the immature animals are in
market through the spring and summer, and to some extent in the fall; but there
is little of this kind of meat to be found on sale in the winter.

Rigor Mortis.—After the death of an animal the muscles become rigid. Sometimes
this occurs very quickly, and, again, it may be hours before this state is
developed. This stiffening of the muscles is supposed to be due to the
separation and coagulation of the albuminoid substance in the fluid of the
muscles. After a time (sometimes many days, and, again, in a few hours) the
muscles relax, some change taking place in the albuminoid.

Meat will not be tender and juicy if cooked while the muscles are rigid. It may
be cooked before rigor mortis Meat will occurs, this is not often done, for two
reasons: not bo ten- first, it is rarely convenient to cook an animal as

soon as killed; and, second, there is a more decooked

while cided animal flavor, which is not agreeable to the muscles majority of
people. The drier and cooler (but always above the freezing-point) meat can be
kept while ripening, the better. Meat spoils rapidly in a humid atmosphere.

Effect of Freezing.—In meat, as in all substances, the tendency of freezing is
to separate the liquid from the more solid parts. Meat (cooked or uncooked)
that has been frozen is never so juicy as it would be if it had not been
frozen; after being in that state and then thawed, it should be cooked as soon
as possible, as it will not keep well.

THE MINOR PARTS OF THE ANIMAL

There are portions of the animal which are variously esteemed. In the city
markets one finds almost every part and organ of the animal on sale. In some
country places the butchers do not take the trouble to dress the head, feet, or
any of the internal organs, except the liver; but in the hog the head and feet
are generally dressed and sold.

The feet of sheep, calves, and hogs are cleaned, boiled, and pickled, or they
are used in stews, or fried in crumbs after

Feet having been boiled. Calves, feet are also used in soups and jellies; these
and pigs, feet are most highly prized. The feet of all animals are very
gelatinous. On the continent of Europe they use the feet of poultry in soups
and ragouts. They are sold in the market like the feet of butchers' meat; they
are a desirable addition to a stock, giving it extra body.

Calves' and pigs' heads are more desirable than any others; they are found in
the markets, thoroughly Heads cleaned. Sometimes half a head can be purchased.

The liver of all the animals is sold as food. Calves' liver is the best; it is
usually light and clear in color u and tender in texture. Beeves' liver is dark
and often hard or tough. Pigs' liver is, by many people, preferred to beeves'
liver.

The liver is the largest gland in the animal. Physiologists are still in doubt
as to what all its functions are, but it is agreed that one of its offices is
to maintain the The liver uniform composition of the blood. It is one of should
the organs that is frequently diseased; therefore ^JS^ it should never be used
without being first thor- examined oughly examined. If the texture is clear and
before smooth one can be reasonably certain that it is in a usmshealthy
condition. If, on the contrary, there are streaks or spots in it, it must be
discarded. These indications hold true also in the case of the livers of
poultry or birds.

Kidneys.—Veal, lamb, mutton, and beef kidneys are all used as food; they, like
the liver, should be examined carefully. Good healthy kidneys will have a
clear, bright color; if diseased they will be cloudy and contain spots. •

Hearts.—The hearts of animals, when cooked with care, make a cheap, nutritious
dish. They may be stewed, baked, or braized.

Tongues.—The tongues of all animals are used for food. They should be firm and
plump; when lean and flabby they will not make a tender dish.

Tripe.—The stomach of the ox furnishes tripe. The butcher sells it cleaned and
boiled. It should be plump, white, and tender; when thin and dark it comes from
an animal that was not in good condition, and will be tough and unsatisfactory,
even if it should be in a healthy condition, which is doubtful.

Sweetbreads.—The thymus and pancreatic glands of the young calf and lamb are
sold in the city markets as sweetQuaii de- breads. Formerly only the heart
sweetbread (panpends7on creas) was sold, the thymus being left in the food and
neck. The demand for these glands is now so animal, great that the two are left
together and sold as a pair". They vary greatly both as to size and quality,
depending upon the age, food, and condition of the animal. For this reason it
would seem more just to sell them by the pound (as is done sometimes) rather
than by the pair. When the sweetbreads are taken from an animal that has been
fed wholly and generously on sweet milk they are plump, white, compact, and
firm. If the animal was not properly fed, or was pastured, they will be dark,
flabby, and tough.

These glands are rarely taken from any but the young calf or lamb, and, as a
rule, the thymus gland has either been absorbed or changed to a fatty or
fibrous substance at the end of the first year of the life of the animal. The
pancreas becomes tougher and darker, but it is never changed or eliminated, as
is the thymus gland. It is not, however, an unusual thing to find these glands
in a steer three or four years old in such fine condition that they make a very
good dish.

Sweetbreads spoil quickly; therefore they should not be kept many days, unless
it be in cold storage. The fine ones are often frozen for use in winter, when
veal is scarce.

The brains, palates, eyes, marrow-bones, lungs, etc., are all employed as food.
The brains of the calf, sheep, and lamb are the best. The marrow-bones from
beef are those usually employed.

GAME AND POULTRY

Under the head of game is comprehended venison (the meat of the deer),
bear-meat, rabbits, squirrels, many varieties of duck, partridge, grouse,
ptarmigan, quail, woodcock, wild pigeons, and a great many small birds.

The venison is cut very much like mutton. It should hang long enough to get
thoroughly ripened—three weeks or more. Venison to be good must be fat; the
lean venison is much darker than that of beef, and the fat whiter. This is one
of the meats that must be served rare and hot, if you would have it in
perfection.

Game birds do not have the feathers removed until they are to be used. Let the
butcher have this done before sending them to you. Be sure that the skin is not
Gamebirds torn off, as it is very necessary in cooking birds.

Rabbits and squirrels should not be skinned until they are to be used; like
birds, they dry if their natural covering is removed any length of time before
cooking. Rab- Rabbits bit-meat is white, delicate, and savory when young, and
but dark and tough when old. The claws are rough 8<luirrels> and long in old
rabbits; when tough they should be cooked slowly.

Gamebirds are generally sold so much a piece, pair, or dozen.

Poultry.—The question as to whether poultry for the market should be drawn or
undrawn has been settled differently by different States. It is a great pity
that any State should decide in favor of undrawn poultry. Where this is the
law, there certainly should also be a law, which should be enforced, that the
animal go without food long enough to empty the crop. This is the law in some
States, but it is not always observed.

There are two methods of removing the feathers from poultry, one by plucking
them from the dry bird, and the other by first plunging it into boiling water.
By the latter method the feathers are removed more easily than by the 'former,
but the water injures the flavor of the Dpy^ked meat and impairs its keeping
qualities. scalded. To know which is scalded and which is drypicked is a simple
matter. The hot water contracts the skin, which is drawn tightly over the
flesh, giving the bird a plump, attractive appearance. In the dry-picked bird
the skin is loose and may be moved about on the flesh, and it has a rather
rough appearance. To the novice it will look less attractive than the scalded
bird. Dry-picked poultry is generally several cents more per pound than the
scalded, but it is worth the difference.

Some of the tests of good poultry are: (1) the bird should be short and plump
in proportion to its weight;

(2) skin smooth, but not the smoothness that comes Tgood°f from sca^ing; (3)
legs smooth; (4) toes pliable; poultry. (5) in poultry for roasting and
broiling, the end of the breast-bone should bend readily—it must not be broken;
(6) a large amount of meat on the breast; (7) the windpipe in ducks and geese
brittle, breaking easily when pressed between the finger and thumb.

Poultry, like all other meat, must be fat to be good. Housekeepers have their
preference as to yellow or white fowl; mine is for the yellow, as it seems to
me that the flavor is richer than in the white chicken.

Marketmen have a way of putting one of each in a pair, but they will change to
whichever kind you prefer.

Only young, tender poultry should be roasted or broiled, but the more mature
birds are better for boiling, stewing, Kinds for and fricassees, as the
proportion of meat to bone various is greater than in the younger bird. Older
fowl are "cooWn °f also cneaper. All poultry is suitable for roasting from the
time it is three months until it is about a year old; after that the slower
methods of cooking are better.

Fish.—The first consideration in choosing fish is that it be fresh. For this
reason it is better to use such fish as is caught near home than that which
must be brought from a distance. The firmer the flesh of the fish, the longer
j£ Quality. time it will keep in good condition. All fish contain a thin
albuminous substance, which in cooking is changed to a white curd if the fish
is fresh and in a healthy condition. This is very noticeable in cod and
halibut, and all fish of this class, where it makes a thin layer of a soft,
creamy substance between the flakes. If the fish has been kept too long this
substance undergoes a change which prevents its coagulation, and the cooked
fish is watery and of a bluish appearance, instead of being firm and white.
Sometimes in the spawning season the cooked fish, even when perfectly fresh,
has the same blue appearance.

Fresh fish will be firm, the scales bright, the gills red, the fins firm and
erect. The fish from pure running streams, clear ponds and lakes, and from the
ocean are the safest and best. Fish are very sanitary, and do not live in any
great number in waters that are badly polluted, but they may absorb just enough
of the pollution to make them unhealthy and often dangerous, as, for example,
oysters that grow in beds at the mouths of rivers from which sewage is
discharged into the ocean or bay. Fish that inhabit stagnant waters or live at
the bottom of muddy ponds never have a fine flavor, and one cannot feel that
they may be as healthy as those from pure waters.

CARE AND PURCHASE OF GENERAL SUPPLIES

The care and purchase of household supplies depend upon where and how one
lives. The family in a flat with little or no storage accommodation must of
necessity buy only in small quantities, while the householder with cellar and
plenty of other storage-room will find it a saving of time and money to lay in
stores that may be kept for any length of time in large quantities.

Green vegetables should be purchased only when needed. If asparagus or lettuce
must be kept for a day or two, put some water in a shallow dish, and let the
roots rest in the water, which should never be more than an inch deep.

Chicory, sorrel, and all kinds of herbs may be kept fresh and crisp in the same
manner. It must be remembered that

How to on^ r0ot ends go m the water. The cooler all keep green vegetables are
kept, the better. Vefresii)leS When vegetables have lost their freshness and
crispness by being kept any length of time, the freshness may be restored to a
great extent by soaking them in cold water—ice-water, if possible.

Winter vegetables should be perfectly ripe before being gathered. The skin on
fruit or vegetable, when fully ripe, forms an almost impervious covering,
through which but little moisture can escape. If, however, it is picked before
it is ripe, the moisture passes through the porous skin, and the fruit or
vegetable shrinks.

All winter vegetables should be dried before being stored, and they should be
placed in a cool, dry place. Tuberous vegetables, such as carrots, turnips,
beets, etc., will keep better if packed in dry earth or sand. Sweet potatoes
spoil Winter 1uickly, and should be purchased only in small vegetables
quantities. Apples should be kept in a very cold should be place. They keep
well in a temperature nearly StoringTM down to tne freezing-point. If one has a
good, cool cellar, it will be economy to buy the winter and spring supply of
apples and vegetables in the autumn, when they are cheap.

Eggs are cheapest in the late spring, summer, and fall. Many housekeepers buy a
quantity of eggs when they are cheap, and preserve them for the time when eggs
are scarce and expensive. If the shells of the fresh eggs are coated with some
substance that will exclude the air, the eggs will keep very well for many
months. It must be remembered, however, that eggs absorb flavor through their
porous shell, and they should not be coated with or packed in any substance
that can communicate a disagreeable flavor to them. Sometimes quite fresh eggs
are spoiled by being packed for a few days in musty oats.

The food of the hens controls the flavor of the eggs to some extent. Eggs are
heaviest when first laid, and they lose moisture and grow lighter from day to
day.

To test the freshness of eggs, make a salt solution of one quart of water and
two tablespoonfuls of salt. A fresh egg will sink in this; an egg that is not
very stale will give just a suggestion of rising, and a very stale egg will
float readily.

Butter.—The mode of making and preserving butter has materially changed in late
years. Dairy butter is no longer made in large quantities and stored, as in
former years. Creamery butter has practically taken the place of the
oldfashioned dairy butter; the former does not keep well, and only small
quantities should be purchased at a time.

When the cows are pastured in spring, summer, and fall, the butter is richer
and of finer flavor than that made from the winter cream, and less of it may be
used in making cake and pastry.

Butter absorbs flavors, and it should be kept in a covered stone or earthen
jar, and away from all strong odors. To harden butter for daily use keep it
covered with cold water.

Milk.—The greatest care should be exercised in deciding upon where the supply
of milk comes from, and, when it has been delivered to you, in keeping it where
it shall not become contaminated or absorb odors.

At a slight advance in the ordinary price one may now get milk that has been
bottled and sealed at the farm, thus

insuring a fairly pure article. Good milk will be slightly strawCoior of
colored and have a pleasant flavor and odor. When milk and the milk is thin and
blue, it has either been skimmed ""eilfiiL68" or watered, or there is something
wrong with it. which it is If there is the slightest reason to think that the

kept- milk is contaminated, boil it before using.

The greatest care is required in the treatment of the milk after it is received
into the house. The vessels in which it is kept should be thoroughly washed,
scalded, and then cooled. The milk or cream should, if possible, be kept in a
cool, well-lighted and -ventilated room. Fresh and stale milk should never be
mixed, unless they are to be cooked at once.

Groceries.—Even in small apartments it is wise to purchase at least a month's
supply of groceries, as it is a great waste of time and patience to find each
day that something is wanting that necessitates a trip to the grocer's, and
perhaps delay in preparing a dish which requires but one thing to complete it.
Every store-closet should be supplied with sugar, flour, tea, coifee,
chocolate, eggs, breakfast cereals (if used), molasses, salt, pepper, spice,
rice, macaroni, bicarbonate of soda, cream of tartar, baking-powder, flavoring
extracts, vinegar, gelatin, barley, starch, bluing, soap, and sal-soda.

All dry groceries and cereals should be kept in glass, pottery, or metal. The
store-closet should be cool, dry, and well ventilated; heat and moisture, lack
of ventilation, Cgroceries7 and msects are the enemies of all cereals.

Nearly all kinds of food-supplies absorb flavors and odors to some degree.
Chocolate, cocoa, coffee, flour, butter, milk, and eggs are among the things
that absorb odors and flavors readily.

As a rule, the best goods are the cheapest in the end. It is especially
important that the flour be of the best quality. Good flour will have a
pleasant odor and a slightly yellowish tinge. Wet a small quantity with cold
water, and work into a rather stiff dough. If the dough becomes stiff and
elastic the flour will make good bread.

The less spice used the better, but in any case it should be of the best
quality.

The best sugar is so reasonable that there is no necessity for even poor people
to seek a cheap grade.

Porto Rico molasses is more acid than the New Orleans, and is therefore better
for gingerbread.

CHAPTER X

THE ART OF CARVING

Some suggestions about carving. General remarks on serving fish.

There was an old saying among the French that it was as disgraceful for a host
not to know how to carve well as it was to have a fine library and not know how
to read. Nowadays one is constantly hearing the complaint that carving is a
lost art since the Russian style of serving has been in vogue. It is certainly
true that for large and ceremonious dinners the carving is not done at the
table; but there are few heads of families who, having been accustomed to good
living, would willingly, under ordinary circumstances, relinquish the duty and
pleasure of carving the joints, poultry, or game served on their own tables.
Roasted and boiled meats may only be served in perfection by being carved
quickly and well on the table. It is impossible to serve a portion of meat hot,
crisp, and juicy from an adjoining room. Besides, there are comparatively few
households that can afford a skilled butler or cook who can carve daintily and
to good advantage.

The art of carving is a most useful and graceful accomplishment, and one which
should form a part of the education

Advantage and pleasure of carving at table.

Roasted and boiled

meats served in perfection when carved quickly.

of every young man and woman. It is not a difficult art to master, provided one
goes about' it in the right ctandittong manner. If one understands the anatomy
of necessary the joint or bird, and the direction in which for good the
muscular fibers run, half the battle is won. camn6

Some of the conditions necessary for success are a cool head, control of one,s
temper, a sharp knife, a seat high enough to bring the elbows on a line with
the table, ample space, a dish that stands firmly on the table and large enough
to allow the joint to be carved without any danger of soiling the cloth. Having
a knowledge of bones and muscles, and all the conditions being favorable, the
carver will be able to do his work scientifically, rapidly, and gracefully.

Realizing how much clearer a few pencil lines may make things than pages of
written instruction, whenever it has seemed desirable the methods of carving a
joint or a bird have been fully illustrated. As these ^ iuus. illustrations are
for real helps, and not for em- tratiomj if bellishment, the lines have been
made as few, "^Suei clear, and simple as possible, that there need be no doubt
or confusion in the mind of the carver. If these illustrations are studied
carefully, and if, in addition, the carver will study, in the chapter on
"Marketing," Figs. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16, the position of the bones
and the direction of the muscles in the various cuts of butchers, meat will be
clearly understood, and will aid the carver in knowing in what direction he
should cut a joint, that the slice of meat may be cut across the grain.

The four cuts showing the bones, muscles, and Why four mode of carving a
shoulder of mutton are given g^^der of as a study of the complicated manner in
which mutton are the muscles are arranged in this part of the do- glven' mestic
animal. It would be an easy and valuable lesson to bone an uncooked shoulder of
mutton. When purchasing this joint, ask the butcher not to bone it. With a
sharp knife pare off all the outer fat, leaving the lean bare. Then slip the
knife between the bone and the flesh, beginning at the broad end of the
shoulder-blade, and work down to the arm- and leg-bones. Remove the meat on the
under side of the bone in the same manner. Examine the muscles to find the
direction of each set.

This piece of meat, when taken from a good fat animal, will contain thick
layers of fat between the lean. Some of this may be removed, and the lean meat
boiled, roasted, or braized. It is not as tender as some of the prime cuts, but
it is very sweet and juicy.

SOME SUGGESTIONS ABOUT CARVING

There should be a long, broad-bladed knife for roast beef and other large
joints; a smaller and narrow-bladed knife

for poultry and small joints. The fork should 'be'used.0 nave a guard, which
should be up while one is

carving. The knife must be examined and sharpened on the steel before it is
used; this should be done before it is brought to the table.

In sharpening on the steel, be careful not to bear heavily on the knife, or to
hold it at too sharp an angle. The best

way is to draw the knife under and over the steel, tosharpsn at an angle o^
about fifteen or twenty degrees, a knife, drawing from the end of the knife
near the handle

down to the point. The last strokes should be very slow and light, to even up
the edge, if by chance it has become slightly turned.

Carving-knives should be ground once in a while. Unless you know how to do it
yourself, or know of a good place where it may be done, ask your butcher to
have it done for you. There is a French make of knife which is inexpensive and
very satisfactory; they are called cooks, knives (the name of the maker is
Sabatier). One can afford several sizes

of these knives, and they will be found invaluable. A French knife for carving
poultry that solves the problem of joints for the inexperienced carver is
called a disjointer or knifescissors. It is, however, too expensive for people
of moderate means, the knife and fork in ebony handles costing fifteen dollars,
and in ivory twenty-five dollars.

The carver's chair should be broad, firm, and Thecary

or s ch&ir

high. There is no reason why any one should should be stand to carve. broad and

A joint or bird should not be garnished with anything that will interfere with
the work of the Garnishcarver. Parsley, cress, and chevril may be put
not'interaside by the carver; therefore they are not objec- with tionable; but
any substance that interferes with JSver. the work of carving is not advisable,
no matter how decorative. It is impossible to carve easily on a small platter;
it is well to have a plate on which the carver may put trimmings or bones that
are not to be served.

Each joint or fowl should be so carved that if all is not required for one
meal, it shall present a neat and attractive appearance the second day. Every
slice or joint should be cut smoothly and neatly; a joint or fowl that has been
hacked is unappetizing and wasteful.

Finish carving one side of a joint or fowl before beginning on the other side.
When carving poultry, whether to ask the guests for their preference as to
light or dark meat is a problem. Naturally, one wishes to TM aof please every
one at the table; but if, by chance guest's (and this often happens), the
majority of the f^re£e"tC0er guests give a preference for one kind of meat, the
dark meat, carver is in an embarrassing position. There was a time when one
felt assured that the ladies would prefer light meat; but women have learned
that dark meat is juicy and fine-flavored, and even the long-despised drumstick
is now the first choice of many.

One may always be safe in cutting across the grain in all joints. Even the most
tender piece of meat will be tough if it is cut with the grain, i. e., with the
length of the fiber.

Always Where the muscles are short and not much used,

safe to cut as, for example, the breast of poultry and birds,

across the ft js not imperative that they should be cut across grain. .

the grain.

When carving poultry or birds one is sure to strike the wing joint at the right
point if the knife is in a line with the top of the leg where it touches the
body.

Sirloin of Beef, or Porterhouse Boast.—This joint is known in different
sections of the country under the above names. It may be divided into three
parts: a, the back or top; b, the

the joint, as it makes such a quantity of dish gravy. The crisp fat on this
part of the roast is also a desirable addition to the dish.

If the tenderloin is to be served with the other portions, turn the joint on
the end, and slip the knife between the bone and the tenderloin, being careful
to keep the edge of the blade close to the bone. In this manner the tenderloin
may be removed whole, and slices cut from it as they are required.

Turn the joint back into its former position.

1. Cut close to the backbone, following the dotted line e, e, and cutting
sharply down the spine.

[graphic][ocr errors][merged small][merged small]

2. Slip the knife between the spine and the meat.

3. Cut thin slices in the direction of the dotted lines d, d. Serve a small
piece of crisp fat from the flank with each

slice of beef, and pour a spoonful of dish gravy on each portion of meat.

If only a portion of the joint is to be carved, do not cut the whole length of
the dotted line e, e. It is a good plan to cut at once as many slices as there
are persons to be served, separating each slice at the end of the carving; then
all tastes may be suited, and the service may be prompt.

If one wishes, the tenderloin may be carved first; slices from this portion of
the joint should be thicker than those which are cut from the top.

Roast Ribs of Beef.—Have the thick end to the left (Fig. 26). Cut from a to 6
straight down to the bone; slip the

[ocr errors]
[graphic]
[ocr errors]
[graphic]

Fig. 27. Round of beef. Fig. 28. Leg of mutton.

knife between the ribs and the meat. Cut thin slices, following the dotted
lines b, c. (Read suggestions in "Sirloin Roast.")

Rolled Ribs of Beef.—Carve like a round of beef (Fig. 27).

Round of Beef.—Have a sharp, broad-bladed knife, and cut thin slices from a to
b.

Leg of Mutton.—The carving of a leg of mutton is not difficult until you come
to the hip-bone, and in what is called a short leg this is often wanting,
having been cut into chops. However, as a rule it is found in the average leg.

Have the leg placed on the dish in the position indicated in Fig. 28.

Make the first incision at the line a, b, where you will just touch the edge of
the hip-bone. Cut slices about one fourth of an inch thick. The slices will be
large and rare until you reach the line c, d. Here they begin to grow smaller
and better done.

If some like underdone and others well-done meat, the better plan is to make
the first cut near c, d, cutting downward toward the knuckle for well-done
slices, and knuckle of uPward for *ne underdone; serve a thin slice of lamb or
crisp fat from e with each portion. In a properly mutton is cooked leg of
mutton or lamb the knuckle is a

El o n oi Op

morsel. choice morsel; ask if any one would like a bit of this.

When one side is carved, turn and carve on the other side, following the same
general direction.

Some carvers prefer to begin with the other side, taking the first slices from
the back, cutting either parallel or at right angles with the backbone. Chops
may be cut from/to e. Mutton It is needless to say that this, as all dishes of
servedhot mutton, should be served hot. The carving must and carved be rapid,
the plates hot, and the vegetables served rapidly. at once.

Saddle of Mutton.—l. Turn the saddle on one side, and remove the tenderloin,
kidney, and fat, all in one piece. This is easily accomplished if the sharp
edge of the blade of the knife slants toward the backbone.

2. There are three methods of carving a long saddle of mutton. One is to cut
long, thin slices parallel with the backbone, as indicated by the dotted line
a, b, in Fig. 29. Another is to cut thin slices in a slanting direction, as
indicated in the dotted lines c, d, cutting thin slices of fat from b to/.
Still another method is to cut as in- fig. *>' saddisofmimon.

dicated by the dotted

lines g, a, then in slanting slices from c to d. By consulting Fig. 14 it will
be seen that the last method has the advantage of cutting all the portions
across the grain. A slice of kidney should be served with each portion.

Haunch of Mutton.—This joint is carved like a haunch of venison (Fig. 38).

Loin of Mutton.—This joint can be carved like a saddle, but it is more usual to
separate it into chops. When the roast is to be carved in this manner, the
butcher must have orders to disjoint the bones.

Eoast Shoulder of Mutton.—A shoulder of mutton, lamb, veal, and venison may all
be carved in the manner indicated in Figs. 32 and 33. Follow the dotted lines,
and you will cut across the grain. Fig. 34 (shoulder-blade, arm- and leg-bones)
and Fig. 35 are given to show the position of the bones and muscles in this
cut.

This joint is apt to be very fat in mutton, and should be served very hot.

Fore Quarter of Mutton. —Carve as directed for fore quarter of lamb, except
that the neck should not be served. As a rule, it is too tough, in the mature
animal, for anything but stewing.

Leg of Lamb.—This is carved the same as a leg of mutton.

Hind Quarter of Lamb.—Carve the leg as directed for mutton, and cut the loin
into chops.

[graphic]

Fore Quarter of Lamb.—1. Cut off the shoulder, following the dotted line from a
to b.

2. Separate the ribs into chops, cutting in the direction from c to d. If it is
a spring lamb the thymus gland or throat sweetbread should be found in the
neck. Carve the

[graphic]

Fig. 30. Fore quarter of lamb. Fig. 31. Breast of veal.

shoulder as directed for shoulder of mutton. Every particle of spring lamb is
tender; therefore the neck is served.

Loin of Veal.—This joint is often stuffed, the thin flank piece overlapping the
stuffing and kidney. If a chop is served to each person it makes too large a
portion. Remove the kidney. Carve the same as a sirloin of beef. Serve with
each portion a slice of kidney and a slice of the flank, with some of the
stuffing attached.

[graphic]

Breast of Veal.—The breast of veal is what answers to the brisket and cross-rib
piece in beef. Where the shoulder has been removed the layer of meat is thin,
and should be protected and moistened while cooking by thin slices of fat pork,
or, if the pork is objectionable, by buttered paper. If the ribs are short,
serve one with each portion cut from a, a, a, to b, b, b. The brisket, c, c,
may be divided into two portions. In the calf the bones are so tender that they
may be cut with a sharp knife, but it is better to have the butcher separate
the joints.

Neck of Veal.—The neck of veal is the upper part of that portion of the fore
quarter from which the shoulder and breast were taken. It includes the chuck
ribs and the neck part. Sometimes the throat sweetbread is found in the neck.
Have the butcher separate the joints of the backbone. This joint may be carved
in chops, or thin slices may be cut from the ribs, as in the case of ribs of
beef. Naturally, the slices are small.

How to protect

thin end of breast of

veal when cooking.

What is included in a neck of veal.

Fig. 34. Position of shoulder-bone.

Shoulder of Veal.—Carve this like the shoulder of mutton. Sometimes the
shoulder is boned and stuffed; in that case begin at one end and cut slices
through the piece. This requires a sharp knife and great care that the slices
shall look smooth and inviting.

Roast Fillet of Veal.—The fillet of veal and fricandeau are both carved like a
round of beef. (See Fig. 27.)

Loin of Pork.—This joint may be carved in thin slices, like a sirloin roast of
beef, or it may be separated into chops, each person being served with one
chop.

Spare Eibs of Pork are cut between the ribs; each person is served with a rib.

To Carve a Ham.—A boiled or roast ham is a dish that, as a rule, comes to the
table many times. It should be carved in such a manner that the last cuts shall
be as moist and well flavored as the first. The small or knuckle end is less
fat and juicy than the broad, thick end; therefore it dries quickly, and should
be the part first used.

[graphic]

Fiff- 35- Showing position of muscles in shoulder.

Cut in the direction of the lines (Fig. 36), cutting clean and straight to the
bone. Have the slices very thin. Continue cutting toward the knuckle.

When the ham is set away the cut part should be protected by paraffin paper.

Tongue.—A tongue, like a ham, has its thick and juicy end, and also its dry
end. It should be carved so as to use the thin, dry end the first day. Begin
cutting at c, d, slanting the slices, which cut very thin; when you have carved
as many slices as

[graphic]

Fig. 36. Ham.

Fig. 37. Tongue.

there are people to serve, carve the same number of slices from the thick part.
Follow the line from a to b. Cut a thin sliver of fat from e. Serve each person
with a large and small slice of tongue and a little fat.

Haunch of Venison.—This joint includes the leg and loin. To cut the meat across
the grain, the direction of the dotted lines in Fig. 38 should be followed. A
method common with some good carvers is to cut wholly in the direction of a, c.
By consulting Figs. 14 and 16 it will be seen that by this method the meat on
the leg is cut with the grain.

A leg, loin, shoulder, and fore quarter of venison are carved like the same
joints in mutton and lamb.

Venison is carved like the same joints in mutton or lamb.

It is very important that the plates be hot and the carving be rapid.

To Carve a Roast Pig.—This dish is served so infrequently that there is not the
same opportunity to perfect one,s self by practice as is the case with the
greater number of dishes that come to the carver,s hands.

The animal is so young that bones and ligaments offer no resistance to a sharp
knife. Once knowing how to begin, and where the knife should go, the task is
quite simple.

There are two methods of bringing the pig to the table; both methods have their
advantages. When all the carving is done at the table the meat is hotter and
the cracklings crisper than when it is cut in the kitchen; but, on the other
hand, if the work in the kitchen is done rapidly and well, and the pig is
served on a hot dish, there need be no great loss of heat or crispness, and the
time of the carver is saved.

Have the pig on a large platter, the side toward

the carver, and the head at the right hand. Cut How t0 .

0 carve roast

off the ears; sever the head from the body; split pig. the head in two. Divide
the body in two parts, cutting through the middle of the backbone. Lay the two
halves on the platter, back to back, the browned side up. Place half a head at
each end and the ears at the sides. The head may be divided into small
portions, if the guests express a wish for it.

Separate the shoulder from the body, following the dotted lines from a to b 
(Fig. 40). Next take off the leg, following the dotted lines from c to d. As
each joint is taken off, lay it with the crackling side up.

The carver may now begin to serve. To carve the ribs

[graphic][merged small][ocr errors]
[graphic]

Fig. 40.

and loin, cut at right angles with the backbone, as indicated by the dotted
lines e and/.

Each person should be served with the part which he prefers; but a portion of
the cracklings must be reserved for each

guest, as this is the cream of the roast. If the pig is stuffed, a little
stuffing goes by the side of the I meat. If sauce or gravy is served, it must
always be put at the side of the meat, never on it, as that would destroy the
crispness.

In all the work be careful not to tear or moisten the crisp brown skin, which
gets its name from making a crackling noise when cut. The French call it "cloth
of gold," because of the rich golden brown of the perfectly roasted and basted
skin. No matter what the method of carving, it must be done rapidly, that the
meat may be served crisp and hot.

To Carve a Turkey.—Opinions differ as to the best position in which a fowl
should be placed before the carver. There are those who maintain that the head
should be turned toward the carver, while quite as many advocate turning the
head from the carver. Others place the fowl with the head toward the left hand
and the side toward the carver. My preference is for the latter position; but
the position one is accustomed to is, of course, always the easiest.

Care must be taken not to tear or moisten the brown skin.

[graphic]
[ocr errors]

Have the turkey served on a large dish; stick the fork firmly in the center of
the breast-bone, and carve in the manner indicated in the drawing.

1. Remove the wing, cutting sharply down at a to sever the joint, then round
the joint, following the dotted lines from a to b.

2. To remove the leg, cut from c to d, following the dotted line. With the
blade of the knife press the leg back, and cut the ligaments where the
thigh-bone is attached to the back; separate the drumstick from the thigh at
the joint e.

3. Take off the side-bone, inserting the knife -where the at/, and cutting up
to g. The "oyster" is found "oyster" on the upper end of this bone. "found'

4. Cut thin slices from the breast, beginning close to the place from which the
wing was removed; follow the dotted lines h and i, working up to the ridge of
the breast-bone.

5. Take off the wishbone, inserting the knife at k, and cutting up to j and I; 
then, pressing the bone back toward the neck, disjoint at these two points.

6. The collar-bone lies under the wing. Slip the knife under the broad end,
press back, and disjoint.

7. Make an opening in the apron at m. You will now have the dark and light meat
at your command, and, also, the stuffing in the breast and the body of the
fowl.

The tip end of the backbone, known as the pope's nose, is considered by many as
a delicate morsel. Insert the knife at n to cut off this joint.

If only half the turkey is to be used the first {[j^jjjf day, do not attempt to
take out the wishbone. turkey do

The dark meat on the thigh-bone and drum- not remove stick should be cut into
small, inviting portions. ^tonef1" The wing should be divided into two parts.
The meat, stuffing, and gravy should be placed carefully on the plate. The
breast, as a rule, may be cut into thin, inviting slices.

Sometimes there are two kinds of stuffing in the turkey,

the breast being stuffed with sausage-meat, truffles, etc.,

Two kinds and body with a stuffing of highly seasoned

of stuffing bread- or cracker-crumbs. The carver should be

may be made acquainted with this fact, used.

Carve only one side; when that is served, the other side may be carved, if it
is required.

Cut each joint and slice clean and smooth. A great deal of meat will be found
on the carcass after the wings, legs, and side-bones have been taken off.

In some families the legs of the turkey are put aside to be served deviled the
next day.

The French sometimes make this dish still larger by leaving the lower part of
the backbone attached to the thigh-bone.

Roast Chicken.—A roast chicken is generally carved the same as in the
directions for carving a turkey, except that the legs, not being so large, are
not divided into so many parts. Sometimes the entire chicken is divided into
joints. This is more difficult for the amateur, and more awkward for the guest,
than when the meat is cut from the bones. If one wishes to serve a chicken in
this manner, the carving is begun as indicated for a turkey. The legs,
side-bones, and pope's nose are taken off; the first two joints of the wings
only are removed. Cut straight down from this joint to the end of the
breast-bone; separate these two long pieces from the shoulder-bone and any
ligaments that may hold them. Separate the breast-bone from the back; cut this
in two, separating it a little below the joint where the wishbone comes.

Boiled Fowl.—This dish is carved the same as roast chicken.

Broiled Chicken.—If the chickens are small, divide them into four parts in the
following manner: Cut through the breast, and separate each half by cutting
across at right angles with the top of the leg. When they are large, they may
be divided into smaller portions by taking off the wings and legs and then
dividing the body into several parts.

Roast Duck.—The method of carving varies with the custom of the house, and
whether the fowl is domestic or wild. The wild fowl uses both legs and wings a
great deal, thus making the joints tough and hard to 'Jjfb""TM carve; while the
domestic duck uses the legs much served in less, and the wings but rarely;
therefore these joints are more tender than in the wild fowl. It wild duck, is
the custom in many households to serve only the breast of the wild duck,
reserving the legs, wings, and carcass for a salmi. In that case the duties of
the carver are extremely simple.

In case the entire duck is served hot, it may be carved by either of the
following methods:

1. Begin at the wing joint (a, Fig. 42), and cut off the wing, following the
dotted line from a to b.

2. Cut off the leg, following the dotted line -ginst from c to d. Press back
the leg, and sever the method of thigh-bone from the back. This joint lies
farther e^reduck back in the duck and goose than in the turkey or is served
fowl. hot

3. Cut slices from the breast, following the dotted lines e, e. Begin at the
lower part of the side, and work up to the ridge of the breast-bone. The slices
should be cut slanting; if the knife is carried straight down it gives too
narrow a slice.

4. The side-bone will be found by inserting the knife at/, and following the
dotted line.

The side-bone in the duck is short. (See Fig. 43, d, d.)

A good deal of rich, juicy meat will be found on the sides below the
breast-bone. These portions are small, and cannot be cut in regular pieces like
the breast, but they should be utilized by serving them with the breast.

The shoulder-blade will be found under the wings. The back may be divided into
two parts, if it is to be served. If the duck is stuffed, make an opening in
the apron near/, and serve the stuffing from here.

The second method has the breast taken off in one solid piece, and is then cut
into suitable portions.

Second 43 snows the position of the joints of the

method of wings and legs, and the method of removing the Cadurff * breast. a 
and ^ show the bones where the wing is disjointed. c shows where the leg-bone
is attached to the body; d, d, the side-bone. The dotted line e, e, is in a
line with the ridge in the breast-bone, and shows

[graphic]

Fig. 42.

where the breast is cut down to the bone; the knife is then slipped under it
and worked close to the bone until the entire piece of meat may be lifted off
the bone. The lines /, /, show the method of dividing this piece of breast.

The carver will do well to study this cut carefully, that he may become
perfectly familiar with the joints of the wings, legs, and side-bones.

Note.—The drawings for the carving of the ducks were made at different times;
the second duck was shorter and plumper than the first.

Roast Goose.—The only difference in carving a goose and a duck is that, the
former being larger, the leg and wing are divided into two or more parts.

The carver should be familiar

with joints of wings, legs, and side-bones.

[graphic]

Roast Grouse.—The wings of this bird are generally clipped off close to the
body before it is cooked. In a ceremonious dinner the legs are not served. When
the bird is young the legs are a desirable portion, the flavor being delicious.
^\

Cut the breast in slices parallel with the breastbone. Each breast should give
from six to eight slices. Serve a little bread-sauce and fried crumbs at the
side of each portion. At some tables each person is served with half a breast;
this is hardly to be recommended.

Ptarmigan and Partridge are carved and served like grouse.

Pigeons and Quail.—These birds are often served Small whole, or they may be
divided into two parts. In Wrd8, that case cut through the breast and backbone
lengthwise.

All small birds are served whole.

[ocr errors]

GENERAL REMARKS ON SERVING FISH

The fat and gelatinous parts of fish.

The tail

Steel imparts a disagreeable flavor to cooked fish; never use a steel knife or
fork in serving it.

The fat portions of fish are usually found in the thin flank or belly. The
gelatinous portions are near the head and neck. It is for this reason that
cod's head is so much esteemed by many persons. is also gelatinous, and is much
more delicate than the head and neck.

Small fish, like smelts, brook-trout, perch, etc., are served whole. Fish like
mackerel, lake-trout, Small fiin carp, salmon-trout, shad, etc., are cut
through the body, bone and all, as indicated in Fig. 44, thus giving a thick
slice; or serve one side, remove the bone, and serve the other.

Cod, haddock, bluefish, etc., when small, are served in the same manner. When
large, the portions are cut from one side; the bone is then lifted and sent
from the dock, blue- table, and the under part is served. Be careful, fish,
etc. when serving fish, to keep the flakes unbroken.

[graphic][graphic][merged small][merged small]

Cod,s Head and Shoulder.—There being three choices in cod's head and shoulder
(Fig. 45),—(6, e, d) the neck, (c) the flank, and (a) the firm white
flakes,—the guest should be asked which part he prefers.

When serving fish containing roe, serve a small piece with each portion.

[graphic][merged small][graphic]

All large fish, like salmon, halibut, swordfish, etc., should

be carved as indicated in Fig. 46. a, b is the back, where

T „ « v will be found the firm, large flakes; c, d is the flank, Large fish, ,
, ,.

like saim- which is fat and gelatinous. buthete" ^ flatfish have, like
flounder, plaice, chicken halibut, etc., a large flat bone running through the
center, and when large they should be carved as indicated in Fig. 47.

1. Cut through to the bone from a to 6.

2. Slip the knife between the flakes and the bone, then begin cutting at c, d. 
Slip the knife under the portion, and place it on the plate without disturbing
its form. Do the other half of the side in the same manner. The bone will now
be exposed; lift it up and send it from the table. Serve the under part in
small fillets, the same as the upper part is served.

When the fish is small, make four fillets of it,—that is, simply remove the top
in two sections,—and when the bone is lifted serve the under part in two
pieces.

CHAPTER XI

FOOD

Brief outline of the processes of digestion. Fruits. Fats. Principles
underlying the cooking of albuminous substances. Principles underlying the
cooking of vegetable substances. The manipulation of materials. Flavors and
odors. Economy in food. Growth and repair. Heat and force. Vegetables with
little or no starch.

The food question is a complicated one, and in dealing with it one must look at
its many sides: (1) cost; (2) nutritive value of different substances; (3)
seasons; (4) climate; (5) age; (6) occupation; (7) eccentricities of taste and
digestion.

In providing food for any number of people, the object for which it is employed
should be considered. Primarily the use of food is to supply material for the
growth and repair of the animal body, and to give heat and vital force.
Incidentally, among civilized humanity, it contributes largely to the social
life.

Each meal should supply the proper elements for each of these requirements.
Every housekeeper who would provide her family with food suitable for the
maintenance of physical and mental vigor must know something of the principles
of nutrition and digestion, and have some knowledge of the changes the raw
materials undergo in cooking.

The object of providing food should be considered.

Every housekeeper should have some knowledge of the change raw materials
undergo in cooking.

It is claimed that the ordinary housekeeper has not time to study these
subjects. It is almost the work of a lifetime to master any one of the
sciences, but any intelligent woman may learn the essential principles
underlying the science of nutrition.

The market value of food materials does not, as a rule, indicate their
nutritive value. For example, there is more nutrition in a pound of a flank of
beef than Valuedoes in a pound of tenderloin from the same animal; yet
notindicate the tenderloin will cost three or four times as "y^^8 much as the
flank piece.

It must be remembered, however, that it often happens that food materials that
are rich in nutritive qualities are difficult of digestion and require careful
treatment to make them a satisfactory food.

The most important food principles have been divided by scientists into two
general divisions, and these are again subdivided. The two great divisions are
comprehended under nitrogenous compounds and carbon Compounds. pounds and

The nitrogenous compounds are absolutely ne- carbon cessary for the growth and
repair of the living an- pounds, imal, and it is possible to live upon animal
food alone. The carbon compounds give heat and force, but they alone cannot
sustain life for any great length of time.

The nitrogenous compounds include albumin, fibrin, and casein. Lean meat, eggs,
milk, and fish are the sources from which we get nitrogenous foods in the most
concentrated and digestible forms. Some vegetable substances are rich in
nitrogen, while others are almost destitute of this important element.

The carbon compounds include starch, sugar, fats, etc. Although these foods are
not absolutely essential to life, they are of great value in supplying heat and
energy, and are less exciting and more economical food than all nitrogenous
materials.

The digestive organs of a human being provide for the digestion of both carbon
and nitrogenous compounds, so that nature designed that all these elements
should ^o^17 enter into the nutrition of mankind. It is essenshould con- tial,
then, that the daily menu should consist of a sist of a proper proportion of
these two great divisions and portion of the phosphates and other inorganic
salts and reat Sri water.

Brerions.V1" Nitrogenous Substances are composed of four elements—carbon,
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. They are also known as proteid substances,
because protoplasm enters into the composition of the cells of the organism.
Another name by which they are known is albuminous substances, because they
belong to the series of substances of which the white of egg is taken as a
type. Sometimes, too, they are called flesh-like substances, because the
muscles of the body are composed of these four elements. These explanations are
for the young people, who are so often confused by the multiplicity of names
for the same thing. Nitrogenous substances are flesh-formers. This term is
often used in dietaries. In nature nitrogenous foods are nearly always mixed
with other food principles. In animal foods there is always fat, various salts,
and sometimes sulphur and phosphorus. The casein of milk, the vegetable casein
of pease, beans, nuts, etc., and the gluten of flour all come under the head of
albuminous or nitrogenous substances.

The Carbon Compounds are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. They are
divided into two classes—carbohydrates and hydrocarbons.

Carbohydrates are so called because the hydrogen and oxygen are in the right
proportion to produce water. This division of the carbon compounds includes
starch, dextrine, gum, and sugar.

Hydrocarbons.—The fats belong to this group. They

contain more carbon than the carbohydrates, and hence yield more heat and
force.

The carbon compounds are sometimes called combustible food, because they are
burned in the body to produce heat and force. Mineral

Besides the nitrogenous and carbon compounds, foods there is another class of
food that is essential to dudewa^ the health of all living animals and
vegetables. ter, lime, These are the mineral foods, and include water, are*6"'
lime, salt, etc. essential.

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE PROCESSES OF DIGESTION

In the selection, preparation, and serving of the food the housekeeper and cook
have a serious duty to perform. It is not sufficient that enough of some sort
of food be given; it must be of the right kind, properly prepared, and, so far
as it lies in their power, served in such a manner that it shall appeal to the
eye and palate.

The manner of preparing, serving, and eating food has a marked effect on the
digestive organs. Every housekeeper and cook should have a clear understanding
of Housewhen, where, and how each food principle is di- keeper and gested, that
in cooking the combinations and pro- "jJ^^J^ cesses shall be such that some of
the organs shall knowledge

not be made to do double work. As a rule, the ofdiges

non.

stomach is the overworked organ. The organs of digestion are the alimentary
canal, and several sets of glands, which produce the digestive fluids.

The Alimentary Canal consists of five parts—the mouth, esophagus, stomach,
small intestine, and large intestine. There are four digestive fluids—saliva,
gastric juice, bile, and pancreatic juice.

The Saliva, which is formed in the mouth, acts on starch, changing some of it
to sugar and dextrine.

Gastric Juice, which is produced by the lining membrane of the stomach, acts
upon albuminous matter, and is thought not to act upon any other food
principle.

Bile, which is one of the products of the liver, neutralizes the acidity of the
partially digested food as it passes out of the stomach. It also acts upon the
fats.

Pancreatic Juice.—This is the most important of the four digestive fluids, for
it acts upon all the food principles.

The Process of Digestion is, briefly, this:

1. The food is ground to fine particles in the mouth, and in the process of
mastication it is mixed with saliva, which acts on starch, but on no other
substance. It is, however, a valuable aid in making the food pass through the
esophagus with ease.

2. The food enters the stomach, and is rolled about by the muscular contraction
of the coat of the stomach. In this way it is broken up, and every part brought
in contact with the gastric juice.' The gastric juice acts on albuminous
matter, but on no other food principle. It dissolves the albumin in meat,
bread, vegetables, etc., leaving the starch and fats free. Some of the
perfectly digested food is absorbed in the stomach, but the greater portion
passes into the small intestine in an acid, semi-liquid mass; this is called
chyme.

3. The bile and pancreatic juice mix with the chyme, converting the starch into
sugar, the fats into a fine emulsion, and dissolve any albuminous substance
that was not digested by the gastric juice. This new product is called chyle,
and is absorbed by the villi, and so passes into the circulation.

From this brief sketch it will be seen that ^sit^of *" thorough mastication is
necessary, that the starch thorough may be acted upon by the saliva, and that
the mtionca' shall be so finely divided that parts will sep

arate easily and the gastric juice may begin its legitimate work at once. When
the food is not properly masticated the stomach powers are wasted, in breaking
it up, before the real work of digestion begins.

In the preparation of food the fact must be kept in mind that the gastric juice
acts only on albuminous matter. If fats, starch, and albumin are so intimately
combined that the stomach powers are taxed with jxlct&cts the task of
separating them, it will be putting a only on alburden of work on this organ
that will weaken it bu^ous in time. It is for this reason that fried food,
pastry, etc., are so difficult of digestion, especially when badly cooked. All
albuminous food should be cooked so that the fibers are softened rather than
hardened. Digestion

Raw starch is hardly acted upon by the diges- of starch tive fluids, and passes
out of the system nearly an a the same as it entered. The more thoroughly it is
cooked, the more easily it is digested.

Fat that has not been cooked, or that was cooked at a low temperature, as, for
example, butter, oils, the fat on boiled meats, etc., are easily digested, if
not taken in too large a quantity. Filling the stomach with liquids while
eating dilutes the gastric juice and so weakens its action on food.

Too much food in the stomach at once inter- Conditions feres with digestion.
Excessive fatigue, anger, and unfaworry, anxiety, etc., all have a tendency to
stop vorable to the flow of gastric juice, and hence interfere with d^68*1011,
digestion. It should be the duty and pleasure of every one to make the hours at
table social, bright, and happy, and thus lay up a store of physical and mental
health for the serious work of life.

FRUITS

With the exception of nuts, the nutritive value of fresh fruits is not great,
but as a regulator of the system they are exceedingly valuable. Dried fruits,
like dried vegetables, are richer in nutrients than the fresh, but they do not
have the same refreshing powers that the fresh, juicy fruit has. Fruits, when
eaten under-ripe or over-ripe, disarrange the digestive organs.

Nearly all fruits are best when allowed to ripen on the tree or vine. Pears are
an exception to this.

Fruit keeps best in a cool, dry, dark place. It ^mdhow*' is necessary to
examine stored fruit frequently, theyshould because decay is contagious.
served! Fresh fruits differ in their effects upon the digestive organs. For
most people pears, apples, plums, and grapes are a laxative, while peaches and
strawberries have an opposite effect. These properties are very much modified
by cooking. Except fruit be ripe enough, and not over-ripe, it is in a more
healthful condition cooked.

There are a few points in regard to fruits which every housekeeper should know.

Some fruits require very little sugar in cooking, while there are others that
are very poor if a good deal of sugar is not used. Some of the fruits that
require a tityofsugar S00& deal of sugar are strawberries, cranberries, and its
plums, tart apples, currants, and gooseberries. "fcritT The fruits that are
better with only a very little or moderate amount of sugar are raspberries,
blackberries, peaches, pears, quinces, etc. Nearly all fruits are of better
color and flavor, and of a more tender texture, if the sugar is added when they
are first put on to cook.

Hard fruits, such as quinces, must be made tender in clear water before the
sugar is added. Some fruits will be improved by long cooking, while others
would be spoiled by Method of t*"s Process< Fruits that will endure long, slow
cooking cooking will not as a rule require as much sugar as those that must be
cooked quickly. The dried fruits, such as peaches, apricots, and apples, if
cooked long enough, will require very little sugar. Prunes should never have
sugar added to them. Wash all dried fruit carefully, and cover generously with
cold water. Let it soak overnight. In the morning put it on to cook in the
water in which it was soaked. Add the sugar, if any is used, and cook slowly
two or more hours. A good way is to put the fruit and liquid in an earthen dish
which can be covered. Bake in a very moderate oven.

The proportions of water and dried fruit are, to one pint of fruit one pint and
a half of water.

Prunes are better not soaked. Wash them one by one, then rinse in two more
waters. Put them in a stew-pan, with a pint and a half of cold water to each
pint of fruit. Let them simmer for two hours and a half. Turn them into a bowl,
and set away to cool. They are delicious cooked in this manner.

PATS

Some fat is necessary to the maintenance of a perfectly healthy body. We get it
in small quantities throughout the lean parts of meat, and in all good meat
there is a generous layer of fat between the skin and the muscular parts. Some
of this coating of fat should be left on the meat when it is put on to cook.

I think that, as a rule, we do not attach enough importance to the temperature
at which we cook fats, nor do we know enough about the temperature at which the
different fats will burn or be so changed as to be SSS^a irritants in the
digestive organs. temperaIt is safe to say that the lower the temperature ^^
fats at which a fat can be cooked and have the flavor are cooked, developed,
the more easily it will be digested. We all know how cooking changes the flavor
of butter, several of the volatile acids which contribute to its flavor being
broken up and driven off.

The flavor of the ordinary fats is improved by proper cooking; but if the
temperature be raised too high, an irritating, fatty acid is developed, as
witness the difference between a delicate brown, crisp piece of fat on a roast
and the disagreeable acrid flavor of the fat which has been subjected to a high
temperature.

When there is water mixed with fat it cannot be raised to as high a temperature
as if the fat were pure. It is for this reason that we put water in the
dripping-pan, and mtagied baste the meat frequently with the mixture of with
fat water and fat. This keeps the temperature of tempera.6 sur^ace of *ne piece
of meat lower than it turelow. would otherwise be, and the digestibility of the
roast is infinitely greater than it would be if it were basted with the clear
hot fat that dropped from the meat.

In all kitchens more or less frying is done, and it is important that it should
be done properly.

Putting a substance to cook in a pan with half an inch or more of fat is the
most unhealthful and extravagant mode of cooking. The portions of the food that
are easily, eco- exposed to a current of air are kept at such a low nomieally,
temperature that they absorb the fat. M{u£y!th" To fry economically,
healthfully, and with the least possible amount of work, it is necessary to
have fat enough to immerse the article. Then, too, it is essential that you
know the qualities of the fats and make a proper selection; and, again, that
you know the temperature at which different articles cook and at which the
different fats burn.

The purer the fat—that is to say, the more oil there is in it—the higher the
degree to which it can be raised without burning.

Butter burns at the lowest temperature, and olive-oil at the highest.

Here is a table of the burning-points of the fats most commonly employed for
frying purposes:

F.

Butter 266° Tempera

Beef, veal, and mutton suet 302° Which dif.

Drippings, i. e., the fat from soups, roasts, ferentfats

etc., clarified . 336° haza

Goose-grease 500°

Lard 392°

Olive-oil 608°

It will be seen from this table that butter is the poorest material, and
olive-oil the best, for frying purposes.

Butter can, by clarifying, be made to stand a higher temperature than 266°.
This is done by heating the butter slowly, skimming it, and letting it rest on
the fire until the casein has coagulated and fallen to the Parity bottom, then
pouring off the clear oily substance. butter. The French prepare their butter
in this manner for sautering and frying. Salt raises the temperature and causes
the butter to burn. It should be washed out of butter that is to be used in
sautering or frying. The French mix lard with butter for frying purposes.

It will be seen that, next to butter, the suet from beef, mutton, and veal
burns at a low temperature.

Drippings, because they are the most liquid parts of the fats of roasted and
boiled meats, have a larger proportion of oil than either suet or butter, and
therefore burn at a higher temperature. A combination of drippings and lard is
the most satisfactory. Many persons object to lard on the score of its being a
product of pork; but it is certainly more healthful for frying purposes than
the suets, because it can be heated to a higher temperature, searing the
article at once, and thus giving a food comparatively free from grease.

In heating fat for frying, one must always consider the nature of the article
to be fried. For example, a temperature that would be right for breaded fish,
oysters, or croThe nature 1ue^es would burn the outside of doughnuts, of the
fritters, or any batter, while the inside remained article to be raw. Again, it
must be remembered that a very 'regulate* co^ or watery article will lower the
temperature the tem- quickly, and only a small portion should be put in

TeTal01 ^ a time.

This is especially true of fish, because some of the water escapes into the fat
during the cooking.

When frying fish, fish-balls, egg-plant, or any watery article, it will
generally be found that after the second batch has been cooked the fat will be
full of bubbles of steam, and will no longer fry an article crisp and brown.
The fat must be kept hot until every particle of water has evaporated. Then it
will do its work as well as ever.

If one attempts to fry in fat that is saturated with water, the product will be
a grease-soaked article, which is not fit for the stomach of man or beast.

Great care is required to keep fat in a good condition. Here is a rule that, if
followed, will secure good results: Eulefor 1- The moment you have finished
frying, set care of fry- the kettle back in a cooler place; do not wait an a'
instant.

2. If water gets into the fat, cook it gently until all motion ceases.

3. If the fat gets too hot before you are ready to use it, put in a handful of
raw sliced potatoes.

4. If there is a good deal of foreign substance in it, add two or three raw
potatoes cut in slices.

5. When cool, but still in liquid, strain through cheesecloth.

6. Keep a separate fat for fish.

How to Determine the Temperature of Fat—1. For all

breaded meats, a faint blue smoke rising from the center, and a suggestion of a
movement on the surface; it is like a pencil-mark.

2. For fried potatoes, a very little stronger smoke.

3. For fish and watery articles, a still stronger smoke. How to Use the Various
Kitchen Fats.—In all kitchens

there is a certain amount of fats which must be disposed of in some way.

All the fat from beef, veal, pork, and chickens can be used in cooking. They
should be rendered carefully, not allowing them to get too hot. Strain them
through How use cheese-cloth, and keep for use in frying or in pre- the various
paring many of the soups or ragouts that call for kif^9en butter.

The fat from bacon, ham, and sausages can be used for frying potatoes and
hominy. These fats can be used instead of butter in some of the savory sauces
made for vegetables.

The fat from mutton, lamb, turkey, duck, and goose goes into the soap-grease,
being too strong-flavored to use in cooking.

It is well to have a cake of mutton tallow to use on chapped hands and on
rusted articles, and also to save a bottle of clear goose-oil to use in case of
sickness.

All fats used for frying should be thoroughly clarified. To clarify fat, keep
it at a gentle heat until there is not a bubble to be seen, and all sediment
has fallen to the bottom, leaving a clear oil. Strain this, and ciarjfyfatSi
keep in a dry, cool place.

If the fat which has been used in frying has become dark, put it in a stew-pan
with several quarts of water, and heat it to the boiling-point; then pour it
into a large pan, and add several quarts of cold water. Set in a cold place.
When the fat has formed in a cake on top of the water, take off and put into
the frying-pan. Heat gently, and cook until it has ceased to bubble and the
sediment has fallen to the bottom. Partially cool, and strain. Remember that as
long as there is a bubble there is water, and the fat will not answer for
frying while it contains water, nor will it keep well.

Solid pieces of fat, like the trimmings of beef, mutton, veal, pork, etc.,
should be cut in small pieces and rendered with a gentle heat.

Take as much care in rendering and straining the soapgrease as that for cooking
purposes.

Mutton fat makes the hardest and whitest soap, but all kinds can be used.

Butter absorbs odors more readily than any rtmoUbu" otner fat. Owing to the
water, buttermilk, and

ter. other substances left in it, it often becomes rancid. If the butter be
thoroughly washed in limewater, and then rinsed in clear water, it will become
sweet again. Sometimes a little chloride of lime is used instead of quicklime.

PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE COOKING OF ALBUMINOUS SUBSTANCES

Albuminous matter is of various kinds, and is found in animal and vegetable
substances. In their natural condition some of the albumins are liquid, some
are solid, and there are others that have a consistency between the two.

Coagulation is one of the properties of albumin. Different kinds of albumin
solidify under different conditions, but heat has the power of coagulating
nearly all albuminous The coagii- substances.

lation of „ . , .,,

albumin. Only a small portion of the casein of milk coagulates when subjected
to heat; but if the milk be heated to 100° and an acid is added, it will
coagulate, as is the case when we make rennet custard. This solidified mass
will be soft, creamy, and digestible.

If the milk is raised to the boiling-point, and the acid

1

added, the albumin will be coagulated, but the product will be quite different
from that obtained by adding the acid to the milk at 100°. The higher
temperature hardens the albumin, which separates from the water, thus giving a
curd and whey. The longer the cooking is continued at this high temperature,
the tougher the curd will become, and the clearer the whey.

The fibrin in the blood coagulates on exposure to the air, and also when
subjected to heat. The albumin in lean meat and in the white of an egg
coagulates on exposure to heat.

Albuminous substances, when cooked at a temperature below the boiling-point,
will be soft and digestible. When cooked at a temperature of 212° or higher,
the albumin becomes hard and indigestible. The purer the albumin, the more
marked is this condition.

To illustrate this, we will take milk and eggs. When we make a curd and whey,
we always find that the curd made with skim-milk is much tougher than that made
Milk and with whole milk; if a little cream is added to the eggs taken milk the
curd will be still softer. Thus cheese to^^^e made with skim-milk is hard; that
made with tomperawhole milk is richer and softer; and that made Jjjjj^" with
whole milk and some cream is still softer.

We boil an egg hard, and break it up. The white will be hard and horny, while
the yolk will be light and crumbly. The white of an egg is almost pure albumin,
while the yolk contains nearly twice as much fatty matter as it does albumin;
hence it does not harden into a solid mass like the white.

Albuminous substance in lean meat is always mixed with fatty matter, and the
more fat there is, the less hard will become the albumin when exposed to a high
temperature. It must be remembered, however, that the fat in the yolk of an egg
and in milk is in the form of an emulsion, while in lean meat it is in separate
layers.

The effect of cooking upon meat is to coagulate the albumin and fibrin, and to
gelatinize the tendons and connective tissue, and it also develops flavor.

Two other characteristics of albuminous matter are the tendencies to
fermentation and putrefaction. The conditions The n necessai7 for these changes
are heat and moisdeneyofal- ture. When the temperature reaches 200° or buminous
more, fermentation or putrefaction ceases. I do tofermen- not know at what
point below 200° fermentation tation and or putrefaction begins, but I am quite
sure that ^tiaiL would not be safe to keep any animal substance for several
hours in a closed vessel below 170°. I speak of this matter now, so that when
the question of slow cooking comes up, it may be fully understood that it must
not be too slow.

The effect of heat on albuminous as on all other substances is not only to
effect a change in the texture, but also in the flavor. As a rule, the higher
the temperature, the more pronounced the flavor. This development of flavor is
quite important, as it makes the food more appetizing, and one should aim to
cook at such a temperature that the best flavors shall be developed, and yet
that the albuminous substance shall not be made hard and indigestible.

Test to To snow *ne effect of heat on nearly pure albusnow effect min, let us
take three fresh eggs and cook them

of temper- at different temperatures. ature on r textureand Have a deep
saucepan that will hold one pint or

albumin jeSS" one lU C0^ saucepan, an(l pour

over it half a pint of boiling water; cover and place

on a board or paper, away from the fire, for ten minutes. In a few seconds the
cold saucepan and the egg will have absorbed twenty-two degrees of heat from
the water, leaving it at 190°, and of course the temperature will continue to
fall in the ten minutes that the egg is cooking.

Have a second saucepan, in which boil half a pint of water; put an egg into
this boiling water, and immediately place the saucepan, covered, by the side of
the first. In a few seconds the temperature of the water will have fallen to
200°, the egg having absorbed twelve degrees of heat. Let this egg cook ten
minutes.

Put the third egg in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for ten
minutes. Then open all three eggs and put them on a plate. Examine the texture,
then taste for the flavor, using butter and salt, if you like. All three eggs
were cooked ten minutes. One stood after a few seconds with a temperature of
190°, which continued to lower until the egg was removed from the water. The
white of this egg is a thick, soft curd, the yolk very liquid. There is not
much flavor, except a suggestion of rawness. The second egg, that was dropped
into the boiling water which fell after a few seconds to a temperature of 200°,
has a pleasanter flavor, the white is firmer, but it breaks up into a soft mass
under slight pressure; the yolk is slightly thickened. This is an ideally
soft-cooked egg. The third egg, which went into the boiling water and boiled
all the time (212°), is what is commonly called a hard-boiled egg. The white is
a smooth, hard mass; being almost pure albumin, there is nothing to keep its
particles soft when exposed to the temperature of boiling water. The yolk of
the egg is firm and mealy.

This experiment teaches us (1) that pure albumin coagulates at a low
temperature (the average is about 165°), but that little flavor is developed;
(2) that at a little higher temperature (average about 180°) the albumin,
although a little firmer, is still soft and digestible, and is better flavored;
(3) that when cooked at a temperature of 212° or more the albumin becomes hard,
horny, and indigestible.

If all albuminous substances which we cook were as free from admixtures as the
white of egg, we could say that the temperature for cooking should be 180°. But
we have few substances which are thus pure.

In cooking meat, it must be remembered that, besides the albumin, we are
dealing also with tendons and connective What to tissue (see "Muscular Fiber"),
which require a remember higher temperature to soften and dissolve them.

^meatf^ About 202° gives the Dest result as to the texture and tenderness of
meat cooked in water. When a bubble of air or steam darts up from the bottom of
the stew-pan every few seconds, the temperature of the water is at about 202°.
This is called gentle simmeringTM" mering, or, as the French say, a "modest
smile."

All boiled or stewed meats should be cooked at this temperature. This rule
applies to all salted meats, such as beef, pork, hams, tongues, etc., all fresh
meats, poultry, and fish.

In roasting, broiling, braizing, etc., all meats should be cooked as near as
possible at the simmering temperature.

It is important, however, that fresh meat or poulruieB for ^ snou^ be hardened
on the surface, that the roasting, juices may be retained in the meat. To do
this broiling there must be a high temperature at first. As etc.' soon as a
thin crust is formed the temperature

should be lowered. All animal and vegetable food is more healthful when cooked
in such a manner that some of the gases which are formed in cooking may pass
off; therefore the stew-pans should never be covered closely.

In roasting, the piece of meat should never rest on the bottom of the pan. A
steel or wire rack should be placed in the pan, and the meat should rest on
this. Meat should never be basted with the clear hot fat that drops into the
pan; a piece of meat that has been saturated in this manner with hot fat must
be indigestible. Always have a little water in the pan to mingle with the
drippings. The water keeps the temperature of the fat low, and meat cooked in
an oven is improved by being basted with such a mixture. If the foregoing
principles are fully understood, and the following general rules are followed,
one can be sure of having all animal food as tender and succulent as the
quality of the meat will admit.

Note.—If a ham be taken from the boiling liquid and plunged at once into cold
water,—ice-water is best,—the fat hardens white and firm, giving the meat a
fine color.

Boiled Meats.—Put the piece of meat or poultry into boiling water, and boil
rapidly fifteen or twenty minutes; then place the stew-pan where the water will
bubble gently until the meat is done. The time of cooking depends upon the kind
of meat, the toughness, etc. Fresh beef, when required to be well done, should
cook about five hours; corned beef, tongue, ham, five hours. Should the piece
of beef or ham weigh over ten or twelve pounds, allow an extra hour; it will
take an hour for the heat to penetrate to the center of a large, solid piece of
meat. For fresh meat that is to be served rare, like mutton and beef, the time
depends upon the shape; a thin piece requires less time than a thick piece. A
leg of mutton weighing ten pounds will be cooked rare in an hour and a half;
medium well done in two hours.

Fowl not very old will cook in an hour and a half; but a tough one may take two
or three hours. A turkey weighing ten pounds should cook three hours and a
half.

The cover of the saucepan should be drawn a little to one side, all through the
cooking, to allow the escape of steam and gases.

Hams, tongues, corned beef, and poultry, that are not to be served hot, are all
improved by partially cooling in the water in which they were boiled. The
saucepan must be set in a cool place (in a current of air, if possible), and
the cover must be removed. The more rapidly and thoroughly the cooling is done,
the better the meat and broth will keep.

Roasting.—Have the meat exposed to a high temperature * for the first
half-hour, then reduce the heat. It must be

remembered that when meat or any other substance is cooked in a liquid which
covers it, the temperature of the article being cooked is always that of the
liquid toe more i n which it is cooking. In roasting and broiling, constant in
the waves of heat are always being diluted with Uqin air.an a*r at various
temperatures. This must be taken into account when cooking in the oven, or
before, over, or under the fire. It would not be possible to roast perfectly in
an oven that registered 202°. The temperature should be about 350° when the
meat is first put in. As soon as the meat is browned on all sides the
temperature should be lowered by the closing of the drafts, and, if need be,
the opening of the checks; but, as a rule, the closing of the drafts will be
sufficient. Basting the meat frequently with the drippings in the pan will
drive the heat to the center and make the meat juicy.

Broiling.—The same principle must be applied to broiling as to roasting: first
great heat to sear the surface, then slow cooking. A steak or chop cut an inch
thick should cook for two minutes close to the fire, then eight minutes drawn a
little distance from the fire. The meat must be turned frequently. This time
and method give a steak or chop of medium rareness.

Stewing and Braizing.—All meats stewed and braized should be treated like
boiled meats: first great heat, then a gentle simmering.

Prying.—The least objectionable and most economical method of frying is to
immerse the article to be cooked in a bath of hot fat. Frying is the least
healthful of all methods of cooking, and should be employed sparingly.

Fish.—The principles underlying the cooking of meats are the same for fish.
Salt fish should never boil.

Mutton should always have the thin skin that comes next to the fat removed
before cooking, as this is what gives the strong, disagreeable flavor to the
meat.

PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE COOKING OP VEGETABLE
SUBSTANCES

The vegetable foods are divided into four general classes —cereals, legumes,
tubers, and green vegetables.

Cereals,—Under this head are included all the grains— wheat, oats, rye, barley,
Indian corn, rice, etc.

Legumes.—Pease, beans, and lentils belong to this class.

Tubers.—To this class belong potatoes, turnips, carrots, beets, parsnips, etc.

Green Vegetables.—The leaves, stalks, and green, tender pods of vegetables come
under this head.

Vegetable Fruits and Flowers.—Cucumbers, squash, eggplant, tomatoes, etc., are
sometimes called vegetable fruit. The flowers of some vegetables, such as
cauliflower and French artichoke, are the parts of the vegetable used.

Vegetables vary in their composition, some having a large proportion of water,
while in others it is small. In green and moist vegetables the percentage of
water is high. In the cereals and legumes it is low.

Starch goes to make up a large percentage of some vegetables, while others
contain none. All the cereals, legumes, potatoes, etc., belong to the first
class. Carrots, _ turnips, onions, Jerusalem artichokes, beets, and biestnatdo
tomatoes belong to the second class. In nearly and do not all the plants that
contain starch there is also starch" found a slight trace of dextrine. Small as
is the amount of dextrine, it exercises an influence on the flavor of properly
cooked starchy foods.

The starch in a plant consists of granules, which are enveloped in a thin
membrane. No matter how fine the flour may be, a large proportion of the starch
grains are still protected by this membrane, which must be broken before the
real cooking of the starch begins. Moisture and a high temperature are
necessary to the perfect cooking of starch. Potatoes, green corn, and other
moist vegetables supply the moisture for cooking their starch; but the dry
cereals and legumes must be supplied with the necessary moisture. The effect of
heat on starch is to swell the grains, causing them to burst through their thin
sacks. A good illustration of this is pop-corn.

If there is a plenty of moisture the starch grains absorb it, as, for example,
when a starchy substance is first put into a boiling liquid it begins to
thicken immediately, cooking on Prov*ded the substance is ground fine, as in
the starch. case of corn-starch; if the cooking is continued for twenty minutes
or half an hour, with the cover on the stew-pan to prevent evaporation, the
mixture grows thinner rather than thicker—that is, the starch becomes dissolved
and grainy; when subjected to long cooking at a high temperature, a portion of
the starch is changed into dextrine, then sugar—hence the sweeter taste in
wellbaked bread or any starchy substance when subjected to long cooking at a
high temperature. Some kinds of starch become more transparent than others when
cooked; this is notably the case with arrowroot.

When starch is subjected to a temperature of 320° or more, some portion of it
is changed to dextrine, and this, in turn, is changed to sugar, if the cooking
is continued long enough, under the right conditions. For example, when we make
a cream sauce by first cooking flour in hot fat, and then adding milk to it, if
the sauce is used at once it will be smooth and free from a sweet taste; but
let it cook for some time, and it becomes sweet, as if sugar had been added to
it. When there is a trace of dextrine in the starchy food, as is the case in
wheat, potatoes, etc., the long cooking changes the dextrine to sugar, thus
giving a peculiar nutty flavor to bread, mush, and vegetables.

The digestive juices have little action on starch in the raw state; if taken
into the system in that form, it causes derangement of the alimentary canal,
and the greater part passes out unchanged. So it is very important that this
substance be properly cooked, that it may be palatable and digestible.

Note.—Church says: "It has been found that uncooked starch from Indian corn may
be completely turned into sugar by the action of the saliva in 3 minutes,
oat-starch in 6 minutes, wheat-starch in 40 minutes, and potato-starch in 3
hours, the quantities, etc., being the same in each case. But after thorough
cooking, all starches require nearly the same time."

Flour, corn-starch, etc., cook much quicker than the coarser meals. This is
because the starchy particles are broken up so much finer that the heat and
moisture reach them quickly. It is for this reason that Graham bread must cook
so much longer than the loaf made with fine wheat flour. A mush or gruel made
with fine flour will cook in much less time than that made with the coarser
meals.

All cereals should be stirred into boiling water, and they should boil. Salt
should not be added at first, because it hardens the cellulose or woody
envelops. When cooking starchy foods it is important that one should know what
result is desired at the end of the process. For example, do we want the
article cooked just long enough to swell and burst the starch granules, or do
we want the process to go further and change the character of the article from
a comparatively light, dry mass to a moist, gummy one?

We have seen that the first effect of heat on Conditions the starch granules is
to make them swell and w^e^ro" burst through their envelop. When we cook po-
light, dry, tatoes, rice, pop-corn, dumplings, etc., the aim is or a moist, to
have these dishes light and dry; therefore the 6Uticie.ar cooking should stop
as soon as the starch granules have burst. If the cooking continues in
moisture, the starch absorbs the moisture and the article becomes soggy and
heavy. If, on the contrary, we want the starch to dissolve, we cook it a long
time in plenty of liquid, as when we bake a little rice and a great deal of
milk together for two or three hours. The result is a thick, creamy, delicious
mass.

Among the varieties of vegetable food, the most important are the cereals, and
of all the cereals wheat is the most valuable. It has the largest proportion of
nitrog

bread. enous principle of any of the grains commonly used in bread-making. In
the form of properly made and baked bread, wheat gives one of the most
healthful and satisfying nutriments. There are hundreds of methods of making
bread, and the different forms and textures give a pleasant variety; but taken
day after day and year after year, there is no form of bread which is so
satisfactory as the loaf that is made with flour, water, salt, yeast, and
possibly a little butter to make it tender, and also a little sugar to help
fermentation. A tablespoonful of sugar to four quarts of flour will be
sufficient for this. The fermentation should go on only long enough to make the
bread so light as to break up readily in mastication. The loaves should be in
such a form that the heat will penetrate to the center readily and quickly, and
each loaf should be baked long enough to cook the starch thoroughly and give a
rich brown, nutty-flavored crust. The secret of the French bread lies in the
fact that the dough is worked without the use of much dry flour; it is not
allowed to rise much; the loaves give as much crust as crumb, and they are
baked in well-ventilated brick ovens until a rich, thick crust is formed.
However, the French loaf is good only the first or second day; this is because
the kneading is not enough to make the dough smooth and fine-grained. The more
dough is kneaded, the finer and closer grained will be the loaf; the bread will
be more tender and will keep soft longer than a loaf which has had but little
kneading.

The leguminous seeds, such as beans, pease, and lentils, are richer than any
other vegetables in nitrogenous principles, and, with the addition of fat, they
may

take the place of meat in the dietary, but un- 5f5nme?T

their nutn

less cooked with care are quite indigestible, tive value. No matter what the
mode of cooking, it must always be rather long and at a low temperature. This
is true even of the fresh or green beans; still, when fresh, the time for
cooking should not be more than one third or one half of that required for the
dry bean. Pease, when dried, require long, slow cooking, but when fresh-picked
will cook quickly. Lentils require about the same treatment as dried beans. The
dried beans and pease, pound for pound, are much richer in food values than the
fresh vegetables, but require great care in cooking, that the tough skin may be
made tender. The French prepare these vegetables in puree, that they may be
more easy of digestion by the removal of the tough envelops.

Fresh beans and pease should be cooked in boiling water, and boiled gently,
with the cover partially off the saucepan to allow the steam to escape. They
should not be allowed to over-cook. The time of cooking will depend upon how
young and fresh they are.

Dried beans and pease should be soaked in cold water for eight or more hours.
They should be rinsed in fresh water, and put on to cook in cold water. They
should How to simmer gently, with the cover partially off the cook dried
saucepan, until they are tender. Rapid boiling, beans and with the cover on the
saucepan, removes and hardens the outer envelop, breaks up the beans, and
produces a dark, strong-flavored, indigestible vegetable. If a little
washing-soda is added to the water in which dried beans or pease are soaked,
the strong flavor will be partially removed and the vegetable will be more
tender. Use a piece of soda about the size of a pea for each quart of water.

Tuberous Vegetables.—Nearly all vegetables of this class are watery. Some have
a good deal of sugar and no starch, while others, as the potato, contain a
great deal of starch. All these vegetables should be washed very clean, and
pared or scraped. If potatoes are liked cooked in their "jackets," they should
be pared at the ends, and a narrow strip of the skin taken from the middle of
the potato. This is to allow the gases to escape. Baked potatoes, if pierced
when half done with a sharp fork or skewer, will be more digestible than if an
outlet were not made for the gases to escape.

Carrots, parsnips, and salsify should always be scraped, never pared. In old
carrots the heart is hard and woody, and unfit for food; only the tender
outside layer should be used. In new carrots the heart is tender, and should be
used. It is important that all these vegetables should be cooked until tender,
but no longer. Over-cooking causes them to become strong-flavored and
indigestible.

Green Vegetables.—Green vegetables have not the nutritive value found in the
grains and most of the tubers, but they are valuable because of the phosphates
and other salts and acids which they contain, and which the human body demands.
They also fill an important part in the human economy by supplying a food which
dilutes, as it were, the more highly concentrated foods, such as meats, fish,
eggs, etc. If it were not for the use of the vegetables, we should eat too much
of the more stimulating foods. Finally, the variety which they supply to our
tables is one of their chief blessings.

Fresh vegetables require great care in their preparation, that they may be made
digestible, and yet retain the greater How the Part of ^eir mmeral
constituents. The French French people are much more scientific in their
preparaeook ^sh tion of fresh and green vegetables than we are.

Where it is possible, they cook them in very little or no water. They blanch
nearly all green vegetables before proceeding with the cooking proper. This is
done to remove any strong or bitter taste, and to make green vegetables
greener, and the white or light tubers whiter.

The vegetables are cleaned, well washed, and drained. They are then put into a
stew-pan full of boiling water, and boiled for more or less time, depending
upon the vegetable. The vegetable is then poured into a How they colander, and
cold water is poured over it. Then blanched, the cooking proceeds. Usually
spinach, lettuce, sorrel, etc., are put in a thin piece of cloth, and the water
is pressed from them. They are then put back on the fire, with butter and
seasonings and sometimes a little bouillon, and are simmered gently until
done—spinach about half an hour.

For such vegetables as carrots, turnips, celery, onions, etc., a sauce is often
made in which they are simmered. Sometimes these vegetables are first glazed,
that is, fried in butter until brown; then a little sugar is added, and they
are cooked a few minutes longer. This gives a rich-flavored and savory
vegetable.

Many of the tuberous vegetables, when new and fresh, are cooked without any
liquid. The small new potato is pared and washed, then put in a broad-bottomed
stewpan, with butter or some other fat, and cooked vegetables, over a moderate
fire until done. The new potatoes, which are about the size of a large marble,
cook in about twelve or fifteen minutes; the stew-pan is often shaken to turn
the potatoes. Young carrots are cooked in the same manner, except that they are
sliced, and butter, sugar, and salt are added to them. It is a delicious dish,
and extremely healthy. Turnips are cooked in the same manner. Young green pease
are cooked with tender leaves of lettuce, salt, pepper, butter, and sugar.
Small white onions and fine herbs are sometimes cooked with them. When the
pease are not so tender, or are canned, a little water or bouillon is added to
them, barely enough to cover them.

The French cook uses a great deal of butter in the cooking of vegetables.
Sometimes sweet drippings are substituted, and, again, a little fresh pork is
employed. The most delicious soups are made with a combination of vegetables,
herbs, water, butter or other fat, and salt and pepper. There is hardly a
vegetable which is not used, either cooked or raw, in salad, the usual dressing
being one third or fourth vinegar, and two thirds or three fourths oil, with,
of course, salt and pepper. For the bean salads, mustard is sometimes used.
When it is possible, the French housekeeper has her little dish of garniture
for her salad, which consists of cerfeuil (chervil), parsley, ciboule (a young
onion), and tarragon. This garniture is added to the vegetables before the oil
and vinegar.

It is not possible to give the exact time for cooking fresh vegetables, because
so much depends upon the vegetable itself, the time it has been picked, the
degree of Jookinif maturity, and whether it grew quickly or slowly, green We
all know that in cold seasons asparagus and somewha? corn are both hard and
unsatisfactory, for these dependent two vegetables demand quick growth to be
ten

nesfand der' In a ^ season pease, beans, and nearly tenderness, all the green
vegetables are rather hard and tough.

The slow growth that comes from a cold season makes these vegetables also less
tender. Vegetables that have been picked long enough to wilt will not be tender
unless the freshness and crispness have been restored by the use of cold water.
Lettuce and asparagus can be kept fresh by standing the root ends in a pan of
cold water. All herbs should have the stem ends placed in cold water. Potatoes,
turnips, carrots, string-beans, spinach, and other green vegetables can be made
crisp and fresh by soaking in cold water for several hours.

All fresh vegetables should be perfectly crisp before being put into boiling
water. The water should be boiling when fresh vegetables are put into it, and
kept boiling gently all the time the vegetable is cooking. If the stewpan is
only partially covered, the vegetables will be greener and of better flavor
than if covered condition of closely. Too long cooking darkens the vegetable
fresh vegeand makes it strong-flavored. Turnips, cabbage, will and cauliflower
are good examples of this. The cooking, small white turnip or cauliflower
cooked over thirty over-cookminutes immediately begins to take on color and ing
ruins a flavor; and if the cooking is extended to double veg^ble that time, as
is often the case, by careless people, the vegetable becomes indigestible. If
potatoes are cooked two or three minutes after they are done, particularly if
they are surrounded by moisture, either of their own or from some other source,
they begin to grow soggy and strong-flavored. As great care is demanded that
the vegetable should not be over-cooked as that it is not under-cooked.

The supply and quality of our vegetables improve each year. Market-gardeners
make a better selection of seeds, and bestow more care on the cultivation and
marketing of vegetables, than was their custom. Small, almost stringless beans
and fresh carrots are to be found in the markets all the year, where formerly
they were to be had only a few months in the year.

A few definite rules will serve to show how easy, healthful, and satisfactory
is the scientific method of cooking vegetables of the various classes. If the
housekeeper and Apleafor cook will take the time to thoroughly study and more
atunderstand the principles underlying the cooking ^° of vegetable substances
as given in this chapter, ration of our tables will be served with savory,
digestible v^a' vegetables every day in the year. I feel like asking, as a
personal favor, that each housekeeper will give for one year as much time to
the study of vegetables as she ordinarily gives to the study of cakes, pastry,
and other sweets.

String the beans, and break them in pieces about two inches long; let them
stand in cold water for several hours;

drain off the water, and put the beans into a stewforoertain6 pan witn tnree
quarts of boiling water; boil for method of thirty-five or forty minutes, with
the cover parcooking tially off the stew-pan; then turn the beans into a
vogreta

bies. colander, and pour cold water over them until they are thoroughly
chilled. Put them in a stew-pan with the butter, sugar, salt, and stock or
water; let them cook rapidly, with the cover off the stew-pan, for ten minutes.
For one quart of beans, use (after they are blanched) two tablespoonfuls of
butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and half a pint of
light meat stock or of water. Or the water may be omitted, and a third
tablespoonful of butter added; cook over a very hot fire for five minutes; this
gives glazed beans. Or they may be heated and served in a white or brown sauce.
If a tablespoonful of salt is added to the water in which the beans are boiled,
they will be greener, but not quite so delicate and tender.

The beans may be boiled hours, or a day, before the time of serving. The
important thing to remember is that they must be chilled as soon as they are
taken from the fire.

Spinach, lettuce, sorrel, cabbage, cauliflower, turnips, carrots, parsnips, and
like vegetables may all be cooked in boiling water, chilled in cold water,
drained, and put away until serving-time, when they may be heated and served in
sauce, or sautered with the butter and salt, as directed for beans. The sugar
may be omitted from beans and other vegetables, if not liked.

The secret of success in this cooking is in having the vegetable crisp, put
into boiling water, having it boil continuously, with the cover of the stew-pan
partially removed to allow the escape of gases, and the rapid and thorough
chilling of the vegetable as soon as it is taken from the boiling water.

If a vegetable is to be served immediately, the chilling is not necessary. If
the vegetable is to be served in a sauce, the water in which it is boiled must
be salted, as the sauce should not be salt enough to season the vegetable.

Boiled Potatoes.—Have the potatoes pared, or partially pared; cover them with
boiling water, and let them cook, with the cover of the stew-pan partially off,
for thirty minutes. Add one tablespoonful of salt for every dozen potatoes. At
the end of thirty minutes drain off every drop of water; set the stew-pan on
the range for a few minutes to dry off the potatoes. Never put the cover over
the cooked vegetable. If the potatoes must wait before serving, cover them with
several folds of cheese-cloth, and let the stew-pan stand on a warm part of the
range. The cheese-cloth allows the moisture to escape, and yet protects the
vegetable from the cold air.

Boiled Eice.—Wash the rice, rubbing the grains between the hands, in three
waters. Put it on to cook in boiling water (two quarts of water to half a pint
of rice). Add one tablespoonful of salt; boil rapidly, with the cover off the
stew-pan, for fifteen minutes; turn the rice into a colander to drain.
Immediately return it to the stew-pan, which cover and set back where it will
keep hot for forty minutes or longer. Rice cooked in this manner will be sweet,
dry, and have every grain separate.

The rice may be boiled in the water for thirty instead of fifteen minutes, in
which case it must be thoroughly drained, then placed in the stew-pan on the
back of the range; cover with cheese-cloth to allow the steam to escape.

By the first method the rice is only partially cooked when the water is drained
off. The saucepan is then covered closely to prevent the escape of the
moisture, which is required to finish the cooking of the vegetable. By the
second method the rice absorbs all the water it requires in the thirty minutes;
therefore it must be thoroughly drained, and while drying off it must be
covered with a coarse cloth, or with cheesecloth, that the steam may escape.

These examples of cooking potatoes and rice are given to show how necessary it
is that there be only the required amount of moisture when a starchy substance
is to be cooked dry. On the other hand, when a starchy substance is desired
moist, the cooking must be done in plenty of moisture and at a high
temperature.

In cooking the various cereals in the form of ^Matare" mush, they should always
be stirred into the redevelops quired amount of boiling water, and boil for at
to cereal^ least ten minutes. If there is fear of scorching the mush, the
cooking may be finished over boiling water; but a fine nutty flavor is attained
by mush which is cooked at a temperature high enough to let it bubble all the
while it is cooking.

THE MANIPULATION OF MATERIALS

There are two forces that enter into the preparation of our food—the mechanical
and the chemical. To do our work with the greatest ease and success we should
unforunder- derstand the reasons why; then there will be no

standing guesswork or uncertainty, and there will be a uni■"le reasrwhy.

the reason formi^y in our results which will be most gratify

ing. So far, when we have touched upon food, it has been to show the effect of
heat on the simpler materials. Now we want to consider briefly manipulation,
heat, air, steam, and gases in relation to certain kinds of mixtures.

In preparing certain mixtures the manner of combining and manipulating
materials is very important. A few brief statements will help the housekeeper
and cook to understand the reason why one gets such different results from the
same materials under varying manipulations and conditions.

Doughs.—These are a mixture of flour or meal, liquids, and other materials.
Anything that is made so thick that it can be molded into various forms is a
dough. The more thoroughly a dough is kneaded or beaten, makes the finer
grained will be the article made from it. u ^*§ne The less moisture there is in
dough, the drier and grained, more crumbly will be the cooked article. All and
moist

or drv

dough mixtures depend for their lightness on carbonic-acid gas, air, and
moisture. The heat applied in cooking expands the gas, the air, and the
moisture which has been changed to steam. The more air we beat into a dough,
the less carbonic-acid gas will be required to make it light. In cooking,
because of the greater pressure required to force the solid particles apart,
all doughs, except where yeast has been used, require a greater heat than do
the batters.

Batters. —Mixtures of flour, meal, liquid, and other substances that are too
thin to be molded into shape, are termed batters. Like doughs, they depend for
lightness on air, moisture, and sometimes carbonic-acid gas. The thicker the
batter, the greater the force required to push the particles apart.

The carbonic-acid gas which we employ to make doughs and batters light is
produced in several ways. One is by fermentation, as when we mix yeast with the
dough or batter; as the mixture ferments, particles of ^JJ^^f gas are given
off, which become entangled in the acid gas. dough, filling it with cells, and
causing it to expand as a dry sponge does when placed in water. It is important
that the dough be thoroughly kneaded or beaten, that the gas may be evenly
distributed, thus giving a finecelled loaf of bread, roll, or muffin. Articles
of food that are made light with yeast must have all the cells formed, and the
fermentation nearly finished, before heat is applied, because a high
temperature kills the yeast plant and so stops fermentation.

Carbonic-acid gas may be produced at the moment it is required for use by a
combination of an acid, an alkali, and a liquid, as in the case of soda and
cream of tartar or bakingpowder; or with an alkali and an acid liquid, as, for
example, soda and sour milk, vinegar, lemon-juice, molasses, etc.

The cook should remember that the gas is liberated at once when the wet acid
and alkali are combined, except in the

When and case of soda and cream of tartar, or a cream-ofhow the tartar
baking-powder. When the acid employed ttberated *s cream of tartar, Dut little
gas is given off until heat is applied. This may be proved by putting equal
quantities of baking-powder in two tumblers, and pouring a little cold water
over one, and hot water over the other. The second glass will be filled
immediately with the gas. This illustration goes to show that, to get the full
quantity of the gas entangled in the dough or batter, all the materials should
be cold during the mixing, and that the temperature to which the article is
subjected while cooking should be moderate if a fine-grained, even-celled
muffin or cake is desired; and if, on the other hand, one wishes an article
filled with large cells the temperature should be higher.

When using soda and sour milk, lemon-juice, vinegar, and like acids, everything
should be in readiness, and as much as possible of the mixing and beating
should be done before the acid and alkali are combined. The work should
progress very rapidly after this, or a great deal of the gas will escape into
the air.

* The cook should not depend wholly upon chemicals for making her dough and
batter light. Where there is plenty of air entangled, only a small amount of
carbonic acid will be required. The too generous use of baking-powder produces
a dry, tasteless bread, muffin, or cake.

In beating eggs or a batter for the purpose of making them light, the movement
should be rapid and the swing of

the arm out and upward; this motion lifts the mixture, and as it falls back it
sweeps the air in with it. The value of eggs in making a substance light is not
that of How ^ themselves they have this power, but that the why eggs albumin in
the egg is a tenacious substance, capa- ^g^^TM ble of stretching and entangling
a great volume of air. The albumin hardens at a low temperature, thus insuring
the stability of the walls of the cells, a most important thing in delicate
batters, like muffins and cake.

The temperature at which doughs and batters are baked has much to do with the
texture of the finished article. If the heat is too great at first, the bubbles
of air %gecie 0f and gas expand so rapidly that they do not re- varied

main in their individual cells, but burst their tempera

ture on

walls, which fall together, giving a muffin or cake texture of filled with a
mixture of great holes and of solid do-^^d particles of dough, a coarse, tough
article which no one likes. The same batter, if it had been cooked in a
moderate oven, would have been evenly filled with fine cells; the texture would
have been delicate and tender. If a batter is very thin, as, for example,
sponge-cake or angelcake, the heat must be very moderate. If the oven is too
hot, the cake rises rapidly and then falls; that is, the walls of the cells
expand too rapidly to hold the structure, and a collapse is the result, as is
the case in making soap-bubbles when one blows too hard—the bubble bursts.

A good general rule for baking batters and doughs is to have a very moderate
oven for the thinnest batters, increasing the heat as the batters thicken,
until we come General to bread, which requires a rather hot oven. The heat must
be as great, if not a little greater, at batters the bottom as at the top of
the oven. anddoughs.

An important thing to remember, in baking all kinds of breads and batters, is
that at first the dough or batter liquefies, and that at this stage a movement
or a jar is almost fatal. The article cooking should not be disturbed until the
walls of the cells are well set.

We often use eggs as a thickening where we do not care to have them light. Many
cooks have an idea that if they are not to be made light they need not be
beaten When eggs a great deal. A well-beaten egg will have twice

&X& US6Q 10

thicken the thickening power of one only slightly beaten, ^htenan When tne eSS 
is required for thickening it must

article. be beaten in such a manner that it will not entangle air. Let the
stroke be horizontal and inward, as if you were cutting the egg. A spoonful of
liquid aids in preventing it from becoming light. Eggs for custards, puddings
that are required smooth and creamy rather than light, and for thickening most
soups and sauces, should be beaten in this manner.

All puddings that are required smooth and creamy, such as custard, bread, rice,
tapioca, should bake or steam slowly. Rapid cooking produces a tough
curd-and-whey article.

FLAVORS AND ODORS

In the preparation of food, while it is important that we preserve, as much as
possible, all the nutrition in the substance, it is quite as essential that we
cook the food in the most digestible manner, even if this means a slight loss
in nutrition.

We have seen how temperature affects albuminous and carbon compounds, and we
have also seen the importance of the proper manipulation of the food materials,
followed by the proper application of heat. There is another point which has
not received from investigators the attention which it deserves; this is, What
are the effects of retaining in the food all the odors and flavors that are
developed and liberated in the cooking? There is not space here to go into this
subject in detail; but a few facts, which have been proved by years of careful
observation and experiments, will help to a better understanding of this
important subject.

All food materials contain flavoring substances, more or less strong, that are
fully developed by heat. In the starchy foods the flavors and odors are mild,
while M and in green vegetables, as a rule, both flavors and flavors odors are
pronounced. This is particularly true d£vejJ°atd of vegetables that contain a
good deal of sulphur or a pungent essential oil, as, for example, cabbage,
cauliflower, onions, turnips, carrots, etc.

With the exception of starchy foods, all vegetable and animal substances that
are cooked in closed vessels are difficult of digestion. The same foods
thoroughly ventilated while cooking will have a delicate co^gla flavor and be
easy of digestion—provided, of dosed or course, that all the other conditions
for proper ^/vessels" cooking are observed. Take, for example, cabbage,
turnips, string-beans, or cauliflower. Cook them in plenty of boiling water for
half an hour, having the water boiling all the while, and the cover partially
off the saucepan, and it will be found that these vegetables will have a
delicate flavor, and will not disagree with those who partake of them. On the
other hand, cook them for the same length of time with the saucepan covered,
and the flavor will be strong, and in most cases they will cause flatulence. By
boiling with the cover off the stew-pan, a part of the gases which produce the
strong flavor and odor are carried off in the steam, thus making the vegetable
much more delicate and digestible. This will be found true in the cooking of
all vegetables, meats, and fish. No matter what the process of cooking is, let
there be thorough ventilation.

Another point to remember in regard to heat, if Loss of you would have a
fine-flavored vegetable, soup, h^red meat, cup of coffee or tea, is that after
the ar- temperaticle has been raised to a certain temperature, it tnre

must be kept near that throughout the cooking process. For example, a vegetable
that is not kept up to the boilingpoint all the time will be water-soaked and
of poor flavor. A soup that is not kept at the simmering-point all the time
will lack flavor. The cup of tea or coffee that goes below 200° will lose its
fine flavor, and reheating will not restore it.

ECONOMY IN FOOD

Economy does not mean going without things that are necessary to health and
happiness, but a wise selection and preparation of materials. It means that
everyeconomy. thing is put to its proper use, and there is no waste. The great
difficulty in the ordinary family is that we have too many kinds of food for
one meal, and that there is neither the time nor the skill to prepare so many
things in the best manner. Fewer things simply and perfectly cooked and served
would mean greater economy, better health, and greater refinement in the table.

The housekeeper should study to get the right combinations for health, growth,
and repair. No one food substance, Proper excePt milk, contains all the
elements necessary combina- to growth and repair, heat and force. Milk as a

turn of food full diet is suitable only for young children and principles.

the very sick. In combination with starchy foods, or as a beverage alone, or in
combination with other things, as chocolate, cocoa, etc., it is a most valuable
food adjunct.

Eggs in almost any form are a valuable and economical food. Milk and eggs,
however, have a tendency to produce a bilious condition, and can be eaten only
sparingly by some people.

The vegetable foods that may, in a measure, replace meats should be found often
on the tables of the people who must study economy. The housekeeper should
never lose sight of the fact that there are certain kinds of food—the
albuminous compounds—which are absolutely necessary for the growth and repair
of the body, and that there must be a certain amount of these compounds in the
food provided for each meal. There are few food substances that do not contain
a little of each of the food principles, so that, without any thought or
planning on our part, we get a certain amount of each in our daily food. The
following tables may be helpful to the housekeeper in arranging the menus for
the day:

GROWTH AND REPAIR HEAT AND FORCE

Meat. /Potatoes. Fish. I Rice.

[graphic][ocr errors][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small]
[merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged small][merged
small]

If at every meal something is taken from each of the four tables, the balance
will be maintained. Of course there are conditions of health and eccentricities
of digestion that must

be taken into account in many families. No one has a right to insist upon any
one's eating any kind of food that is injurious to him, or that is painfully
distasteful. On the other hand, people should try to like all the ordinary
plain foods, both for their own comfort and good, and for the comfort of those
who provide for the table.

In these days, when there are so many fads as to when, what, and how one shall
eat, the housekeeper must exercise her common sense, and not attempt risky
experi

Fads and ments on herself and her family. It may be well common J .;

sense. for some people to omit the morning meal, and for

others to give up certain kinds of food, but for the majority of people three
meals a day and a mixed diet are a necessity. The important thing is not to
narrow the diet down to a few things, but to know how to prepare all the food
substances in a healthful, digestible, and appetizing manner, that the table
may be provided with a generous variety.

Purchase only what you need, prepare it carefully, utilize even the smallest
particles of what is left over. You will

find it possible to combine many little things which needle are ordinarily
thrown away, so as to make a deliwasted, cious dish. Mix, for example, a few
spoonfuls of

different kinds of vegetables, a little gravy or a small bone from steak or
chops, a small piece of bread, water, salt, and pepper; simmer for an hour, rub
through a sieve, return to fire; add a teaspoonful of butter, boil up, and you
have a delicious soup. If the greater part of the vegetables were beans or
pease, a little milk added to the strained mixture will give you a cream soup.
Or, you have a little stuffing or gravy left from a roast; add this to a can of
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, cook half an hour, strain, and serve
with toasted bread. This gives you a savory soup for a luncheon.

A few spoonfuls of rice, hominy, macaroni, or potato, mixed with a little
chopped meat or fish, and a few spoonfuls of gravy to moisten the mixture, may
be put in a little dish, covered with crumbs, and baked in the oven. Stuffing
left from roast poultry may be sliced thin and browned in the oven, and served
on slices of toast. Indeed, there need not be the slightest waste where brains
and willing hands preside in the kitchen.

CHAPTER XII

WOODS AND POLISHED FLOORS

Polished floors. Hard-wood floors. Waxed floors. To clean and wax at the same
time. Summary. Stained floors waxed. General directions for oiling floors.
Summary. Cleaning with petroleum. Appliances used in polishing floors. Piazza
floors.

Every one should have some knowledge of a material which enters as largely as
wood does into the construction of houses and furniture.

A log of wood may be thus briefly described: the bark,

immature or sap-wood, mature or heart-wood, pith. The

A brief ^ark is neai*ly always removed before the wood is

description employed in any but the rudest kind of structure,

of a log of so we need not consider it. The sap-wood is the wood*

new soft wood lying between the bark and the heart-wood; it contains a great
deal of soluble organic matter, which ferments readily, and causes the lumber
to decay, unless it is soaked or dried out soon after the tree has been hewn.
In the best lumber it is often removed.

The heart-wood is that part of the tree which lies between the sap-wood and the
pith. This part of the log is generally much closer grained, harder, and darker
than the sap-wood. It contains only a small amount of soluble organic matter,
and is therefore less liable to decay than the sap-wood. In many of the soft
woods there is no perceptible difference in the color of the heart- and
sap-wood; this is the case with poplars, soft pine, spruce, etc.

Air and moisture combined are destructive to wood. When wood is kept dry and
exposed to the air, it is not liable to rapid decay. Wood sunk deep in water or
earth is less liable to decay than when exposed ^tionof" to the air and
frequent wettings. Any applica- air and tion that will exclude the air will
tend to preserve g^^v^, wood. Paint, oil, and varnish are the most com- W00d.
mon preservatives. All woods that have an outside exposure should be painted or
oiled, or treated with one of the many preservatives on the market.

When posts are sunk in the ground, the ends that are to be buried should be
treated in some manner, that they may not decay readily. If one cannot afford
the ex- How the pensive preparations, the ends may be burned ends of long
enough to cover them with a thin layer of p°2stsn^lk charcoal, or they may be
soaked in strong hot ground brine, and some coarse salt be put in the earth may
]>e that is used to fill in around them; or they could receive two coats of
paint, which will protect them from moisture. Locust, cedar, and chestnut, in
the order in which they are named, are the best woods for putting in the
ground.

Wood that has a resinous substance distributed throughout its structure resists
decay when exposed to air and moisture. The resins are insoluble in water, and
HeMMiM harden on exposure to air, thus making the wood woods impervious to
moisture. It is for this reason that resist deyellow pine (the long-leafed pine
commonly called Georgia pine) is so desirable for piazzas, kitchen and laundry
floors, and all other situations where wood is exposed to air and moisture.

The gums are soluble in water, and therefore do not afford the protection to
wood that resinous matter does. The

Wood shrinks in

breadth and depth and little in length.

changes.

closer grained and the smoother the wood is planed, the less liable it is to
absorb moisture; hence the more durable.

Wood that has had the sap dissolved and soaked out of it, and is then dried
with care in well-ventilated sheds, is more durable than the wood that has had
the sap dried in it. In drying, wood shrinks in its breadth and depth, and
little, if any, in the length. If these woods absorb moisture they expand in
the direction in which they contracted. All woods warp more or less when
exposed to atmospheric In selecting woods for floors, doors, windows, etc.,
care should be taken to choose those having the least tendency to warp. Some of
the woods having this tendency are all the poplars and the short-leaved yellow
pine.

The mode of sawing the boards has much to do with the wearing quality of the
wood in floors. Among lumberdealers, boards are designated from the manner of
cutting, as "quartered," "rift or comb grain," and "slash" or "bastard." The
quartered and the comb grain give a board that wears smoothly and does not
sliver, a most desirable quality in a floor. The slash or bastard, in some
woods, peels off in fine slivers, making an unsightly and poor-wearing floor.
This same wood is beautiful and quite durable in interior finishes that are
well protected and not subject to friction, as, for example, in panels of
doors. In some woods, such as maples and other hard woods, the slash is so fine
and close that it never grows rough, and it can be used in furniture, interior
finish, and floors quite as well as quartered or comb-grained wood. On the
other hand, in all the pines, spruce, poplars, some of the ash, etc., the
annual layers separate with more or less ease. An explanation of the manner of
growth and cutting will help to an understanding of why we have so many
unsatisfactory floors, and the remedy for them.

The mode of sawing is largely responsible for the wearing quality.

A brief explanation

of the manner of

growth and cutting of

[graphic]

The tree grows from the outside, each year making a layer that is higher than
that of the preceding year. Fig. 48 shows roughly how these layers are
arranged. The space between a, b, and c, d, would give rift or combgrain
boards; that between b and c, slash or bastard. Fig. 49 shows the rift and
slash in a pine board, a, a is rift; b, slash. Fig. 50 shows the manner of
cutting a log. The half a shows the ordinary way of cutting which gives one
broad board. The center of the board, d, will contain the short annual
layers—slash—and the outside, c, c, the long annual layers—rift. The board is
often recut, giving two pieces of rift and one of slash. The half of the log b 
shows one of the methods of quartering woods. This is done a great deal with
the fine oaks used for furniture and interior finish. By this method the wood
is all cut across the grain.

In laying floors that are not to be covered, the slash of the soft woods should
never be used. Shelves and tables in kitchens and pantries should not be made
of slash wood.

Since bare floors are becoming almost universal, the following advice from an
expert as to the best wood, and the manner of preparing and laying them, will
aid those who want good floors that shall increase in beauty with years and
with proper care. Nothing is said of inlaid floors, as this kind of work should
be done by men skilled in that line.

"The hard woods used as flooring are oak, ash, maple, walnut, mahogany, and
cherry. The so-called soft woods

Fig. 48.

An expert's advice in regard to best wood and manner of preparing for floors.

are white pine, yellow pine, hard pine, spruce, the poplars, and basswood.

"The hard woods do not shrink as much as the soft woods. Yellow pine does not
absorb moisture as readily as some

[graphic][merged small]

woods, because of the amount of resinous substance in it; for this reason it is
excellent for kitchen and laundry, or any floors exposed to moisture.

"Maple is one of the most satisfactory woods for a floor. It may be used in any
part of the house, from parlor to kitchen. It grows smoother and finer with
wear. The first cost is greater than yellow pine, but it pays in the end.

"The boards for floors should be planed on both sides. The planing on the under
side is to prevent the wood from absorbing moisture.

"To insure the floor against becoming uneven because of the boards expanding if
there is moisture, each board should be about one sixteenth of an inch narrower
on the under side than on the top; this allows of expansion and contraction.

"Flooring should be made of lj-inch plank, tongued and grooved. This flooring
will cost perhaps one third more than that made from the lj-inch plank, but it
will be cheaper in the end, because the work will cost the same with either
kind, while the thicker plank will wear more than a third longer than the
thinner."

POLISHED FLOORS

Slowly but surely the polished floor is making its way into homes in all parts
of the country. "Oh," some say, "it is only a fad which will have its day, and
pass away like other fads." On the contrary, it is not a passing fad, but a
sensible hygienic fashion which has come to stay, and which commends itself to
all thinking people. The advantages of such a floor are its cleanliness and
healthfulness, the ease with which a room with such a floor can be kept clean,
and, after the first cost, the economy of it.

One has only to observe the difference in sweeping a carpeted floor and one
that is uncarpeted to realize the greater cleanliness and healthfulness of the
polished floor. When sweeping is being done in the carpeted room, T^e °J)ja""
the dust rises in clouds, more or less heavy, ac- polished cording to the
condition of the carpet and the ^l^7 method of using the broom. Naturally the
dust sanitary, settles on the walls, doors, and windows, and is inhaled by the
sweeper. To remove it requires time and care, and a second breathing of
dust-laden air for the sweeper.

On the other hand, the hair brush or dust-mop may be passed gently over the
polished floor, taking up all the dust without raising or scattering it. The
dust on walls, woodwork, or furniture is but slightly increased by this
sweeping, and the person cleaning is not compelled to breathe diseasegerms with
the dust. Certainly the floors of rooms continually in use, such as the
dining-room, living-room, bedrooms, and bath-rooms, should be polished, or
covered with a fine, closely woven matting.

By polished floors is meant any floor finished smoothly, and stained, oiled,
varnished, waxed, or painted. Any floor of this kind may be kept clean without
the aid of much Sanitary water; an^ this is a great consideration when we value
of realize that moisture is one of the conditions Pfloorsd favoring the growth
of bacteria. Thus if the boards forming the floor are kept dry there will be no
decay, and but slight chance for the growth of germs.

Although hard wood is the most desirable material in every way for a floor, one
can manage with a pine floor that is fairly well finished. The tendency of pine
boards to sliver, and their softness, make it impossible to have a beautiful
floor, but one can get fair results and a reasonable amount of wear out of it
if it is treated carefully, and if rugs are laid where the greatest wear comes.
Crude petroleum can be used to cleanse floors that have Use of ^een painted,
varnished, or oiled. This oil not crude pe- only cleanses, but at the same time
it gives a finish. tr0floors on The refined oil may also be used, but does not
clean so quickly or thoroughly as the crude petroleum. Before deciding on the
kind of finish to be put on the floor, the question as to whether it is to be
light or dark must be settled. If the floor is to be kept the color of the "^
floor.4118 wood, it must be waxed or varnished with a clear varnish. Oil
darkens a wood. The more oil used, the darker the wood is made. Wood that is
oiled darkens with age. The lightest oil used for cleaning and oiling woods is
petroleum. When linseed-oil, sweet-oil, or paraffin-oil is employed for
cleaning or polishing woods, it is diluted with turpentine to make it lighter.
Any surface except a waxed surface may be polished with oil.

HARD-WOOD FLOORS

The daily care of the polished floor is perhaps greater than that of the
carpet. But this daily care is so simple, and the outlay of time and strength
so small, that it is very little compared with the amount of strength and time
one must give a carpeted room in the course of a year.

Many persons object to the wood floor on the score of danger and cold. When one
remembers that the hard-wood floor is, as a rule, an extra layer of boards,
perfectly joined, it will be seen that it is a better protection against wind
and dust than is the carpet. Besides, one always has rugs on which the feet
rest when one is sitting. As to danger, these floors need not be so highly
polished that there is danger from them. An oiled floor is less slippery than
one that is waxed. A floor polished with encaustic can be made less slippery
than one polished with the pure wax. The amount and hardness of the rubbing
makes the floor more or less beautiful, and also more or less slippery.

Small, smooth rugs should not be put at doors or on hall floors, where one is
apt to walk quickly and without thinking. There is no danger when the rug is
large and heavy. The coarse Japanese rug is excel- ^jfjjjfo, lent, because it
does not slip easily on the pol- floors, ished surface. Otherwise, if one
disposes of the rugs by couches, tables, etc., there is no danger. I should
advise a strip of carpet on polished stairs. The sides can be kept as
brilliantly polished as one may wish. In caring for a hard-wood floor, it must
be remembered that of water is one of the worst things that can be used. water
on If at any time there should seem to be a necessity pflo^sed for cleaning
with water, it must be only by means of a soft cloth wrung out of warm water.
It must also be rubbed with another dry one. Then it should be oiled or
polished at once. Any liquid spilled upon a waxed floor and allowed to dry of
itself will produce a stain which can only be removed by hard rubbing and the
encaustic. Even drops of clean cold water will spot a waxed floor unless they
are wiped at once.

The daily care of the hard-wood floor is very simple. If the room is much used,
it must be swept first with a soft hair brush, then wiped with a long-handled
dust-mop of floorTM which comes for this purpose and is also known as a
yacht-mop. When a room is not used much the dust-mop is all that is required.
If there are spots on the floor, they should be rubbed with a piece of flannel
or carpet. If this does not remove them, they may be cleaned with a little
turpentine on a piece of cloth; this takes off the polish, and it will be
necessary to rub the spot with a cloth moistened with encaustic or with oil,
according to the finish, and then polish it.

Once a week all the spots should be wiped clean, and a cloth moistened with
encaustic, or oil and turpentine, should Weekly ^e ruDbed on any parts of the
floor where the polcare of ish has worn off; then the floor should be rubbed
haflo"or°0d with a weighted brush. This weekly treatment is only for rooms very
much used. A floor that is thoroughly cleaned and polished twice a year can be
kept in beautiful condition by this weekly care.

These general directions are for the daily and weekly care of well-finished
waxed or oiled floors. Exact instruction is Necessity necessary for eacn method
of treatment. I have of proper seen so many floors spoiled, the most beautiful
as

"of flooTMt we^ as commonest, °y improper treatment, that I shall go into the
minutest details of waxing, oiling, and polishing floors. These directions will
be followed by a summary of the methods, which will give the different steps of
the work concisely and clearly. Having read the details carefully, the worker
will find the summary a clear and simple guide.

WAXED FLOORS

The floor to be waxed should be perfectly smooth and clean. The boards of a
close-grained wood made perfectly smooth can be waxed without any other
preparation. An open-grained wood will require filling. If the wood is desired
one or many shades darker than the original Preparing tone, some color can be
put in with the filler. The the floor filling and staining, if any, are
generally done by foiwaxmBthe men who finish the floors. (See " Finishing,
Filling, and Staining of Floors.")

The wax for polishing can be bought prepared for use, or it can be prepared at
home. (See encaustics No. 1 and No. 2.) The prepared polishes come in liquid
and in solid form. The liquid is more easily put on, and requires little
rubbing to give the boards a high polish; but the surface is more slippery than
when the more solid forms are used.

Put the wax where it will be getting warm and soft. Have the room thoroughly
swept and dusted, all the furniture dusted, the lighter pieces removed from the
room, and the windows washed. Wipe all the dust from the floor with a damp
cloth. Go over the floor carefully, and clean any soiled places with turpentine
and a flannel cloth.

Should black stains, from water or other causes, come on

the boards, pour a strong solution of oxalic acid on the spot,

letting it remain until the stain disappears. The

acid not only removes the stain, but also the color ]Je.moving' , stains with

from the wood, and this must be restored before oxalic acid.

polishing. (See "Restoring Color to Wood.")

When all the floor has been cleaned in this way, moisten a

flannel cloth with the soft wax, being careful not to have any

large or hard bits of wax on it. Rub the floor all Metnod of

over with this cloth, renewing the wax whenever applying

necessary. When all is done, let the floor remain WvJrt0

in this condition an hour or more, if there is time;

then polish it with a weighted brush, rubbing with the brush

until a soft luster comes. When the whole floor has been

polished in this manner, cover the brush with a large woolen

cloth or a piece of clean woolen carpet, fastening the cover on the brush with
safety-pins. Rub the floor with this, and the surface will take on a higher
polish.

TO CLEAN AND WAX AT THE SAME TIME

When the floor is very much soiled, it can be cleaned and polished at the same
time by using encaustic No. 2 and turpentine.

Put the encaustic in a bowl, then set in a pan of boiling water. Have the floor
swept and dusted. Have two woolen cloths and several pieces of old cotton;
waste cotton is very good if it can be procured with ease, but any kind of soft
uncolored cotton will answer.

When the encaustic is hot, add about an equal volume of

turpentine to it. Keep the bowl in hot water, but away

Method of ^rom the ^re, as there is danger from the turpen

applying tine. Dip one of the flannel cloths in the hot

the.. mixture, and begin at one side of the room, rubencansuc. .

bing as large a space as you can comfortably until it is clean. Then with the
cotton cloth wipe off the soiled cleaning-mixture; next polish with the second
piece of flannel.

If the floor is not very dirty, and requires polishing only, dip a brush or
cloth in the hot mixture and go over the floor Polishing. Quickly but
thoroughly. Let this stand until dry, which will take two or three hours; then
polish with the weighted brush as directed in the first rule for polishing a
waxed floor.

The encaustic can be used on any waxed floor or on a varnished floor.

SUMMARY

1. Put encaustic No. 2 in a bowl, which place on the fire in a pan of hot
water.

2. Sweep and wipe floor.

3. Add equal volume of turpentine to hot encaustic, and dip woolen cloth into
mixture; clean with this. Wipe with cotton cloth, and polish with woolen cloth.
Or, go over floor quickly with cloth dipped in hot mixture.

Let the floor stand for several hours, and then polish with weighted brush.
This treatment can be given to regularly waxed floors or to varnished floors.

STAINED FLOORS WAXED

Stained floors can be waxed with any of the prepared waxes, or with encaustic
No. 1. Never use No. 2,

as it would take the color out of the boards. stain"

Proceed as directed in first rule for waxing. floors.

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR OILING FLOORS

The oiled floor is often unsatisfactory because the work has been done
improperly. Sometimes the oil used was too heavy, and it may not have been
rubbed into the wood thoroughly. Then, again, the floor and room may not have
been perfectly clean, so that the floating dust lodged in the oiled surface and
soon became black and unsightly.

If the boards are new, and one wants to saturate them with boiled linseed-oil,
the oil should be made rather hot. Have the room and floor perfectly clean. Dip
a Applica. broad paint-brush in the oil and go over the floor, tion of

boiled linseed-oil.

working the brush back and forth on the boards as if painting. Let this stand
for an hour or more; then cover a weighted brush with a woolen cloth, and go
over all the floor, rubbing with the grain of the wood. The polishing must be
continued until the floor looks smooth and not oily.

Another way is to mix two thirds boiled linseed-oil with one third turpentine.
Wet a cloth in this mixture, and rub it into the boards, following this with a
brisk rubbing with a woolen cloth in the hands or on a weighted brush.

The secret of success in oiling wood of any description is to use a good
quality of oil, with enough turpentine or alSeoretof conol added to make it
rather light—from one success in fourth to one half as much turpentine or
alcohol as oil. Have the surface to be oiled perfectly clean and free from
floating dust. Rub the oil mixture well in, and let it stand an hour or more to
dry. Finally, rub the surface briskly with a woolen cloth until it has taken a
polish and there is no moist oil on the surface.

A floor with any kind of finish except wax can be oiled in this manner. Painted
floors, linoleum, and oil-cloth are much Oiling improved by this treatment.
They should first be painted thoroughly washed, then rubbed with a cloth made
oleum etc ^amP w^n o^ and turpentine in equal proportions, and polished with
the woolen cloth. Such floors are not soiled easily, and they retain their
luster and softness for years if they are thus treated.

SUMMARY

1. Have floor and room free from dust.

2. Dampen a woolen cloth with boiled linseed-oil and turpentine, and rub into
boards, rubbing with the grain.

3. Polish the oiled surface with a dry woolen cloth.

4. If boards are new, and it is desired that they absorb much oil, have oil
heated and put on thickly with woolen cloth or brush. Let the floor stand a few
hours to have the oil strike in; then polish.

CLEANING WITH PETROLEUM

Have the room and floor free from dust. Wet a woolen cloth with
petroleum,—either the crude or the refined article

may be used,—and rub the boards briskly, rubbing with the grain. When all is
finished, let it stand an hour or two to dry, then polish with a woolen cloth.
If the polishing is not done, dust will adhere to the floor, and T^nTMp0°fr' if
the boards are varnished or painted they will polishing, have a cloudy
appearance in a day or two. The odor of petroleum is very disagreeable, but if
there be a free sweep of air through the room it passes off in a short time.

Petroleum does not contain enough fat to give a fine, soft finish to boards;
therefore the floor should be treated with boiled linseed-oil and turpentine
about once in two or three months when a room is not subjected to hard usage.
For a kitchen floor once a month is a fair average.

APPLIANCES USED IN POLISHING FLOORS

Upon the right selection and proper treatment of the appliances used in the
care of floors will depend the success and ease with which the work is done.
There will be required soft cloths (woolen, when possible), clean pieces of
carpet, one long-handled and one short-handled hair brush, one dust-mop
(sometimes known as a yacht-mop), one dustpan, one weighted brush, boiled
linseed-oil, turpentine, wax, and a metallic or stone receptacle for cloths
used in oiling and waxing.

The weighted brush, oil, turpentine, and wax are the only additional appliances
necessary for the care of polished floors; all the other implements are such as
are also required for ordinary floors.

The weighted brush may be bought at any first-class kitchen-furnishing store,
and it costs about five _ dollars. It is indispensable in a house where floors
weighted are waxed, and is most useful in polishing any jJJJJJr^Sf floor. It is
a broad, flat brush made from the best Russian bristles. On this brush is
fastened a loaded top. A long handle, which can be bent to a certain angle, is
fastened into this. When this brush is placed on the waxed surface it is pushed
back and forth until the boards tak,e a high polish. At first it moves with
difficulty, but after it has passed back and forth over the surface two or
three times it slides over easily. On no consideration must this brush become
oily. When any oiled surface is to be polished, the brush is covered with a
thick woolen cloth or piece of carpet, which can be fastened on with
safety-pins. It is important that this brush be kept perfectly clean, and for
this reason it must always be kept covered when not in use.

Make a cotton bag with running-strings; slip the brush in this, and tie. This
brush is so heavy that it should have a place to stand where it will not often
be neces

weighted aar^ to carry ^ over *ne stairs- Of course floors brush. can be
polished by getting down on one's hands and knees and polishing with brush or
cloth, but this is very hard, slow work. The French have brushes that can be
strapped on the feet, and most of the polishing is done in this way. This work
is usually done by men.

About once in two or three months wash the brush in the following manner: Half
fill a pail with tepid water, and to this add three tablespoonfuls of household
amweighted moma- Soak the brush in this for about half brush. an hour. Sop it
up and down in the water, then rinse thoroughly in clear, cold water. Wipe and
turn it up to dry in a current of air. It takes some time to dry, so the
washing should not be attempted just before polishing the floor. The drying
must never be hurried by placing the brush near heat, as that would spoil it.
With this care a weighted brush ought to be serviceable from ten to twenty
years. When the bristles are worn out a new brush can be put on the loaded top.
The dust-mop, which is a thick mop of soft cotton thread fastened to a long
handle, costs about seventy-five cents.

One can with this wipe up the dust from a large floor in

five or ten minutes. It should be thoroughly

shaken every time it is used, to remove the dust, ^o^8*"

Once a fortnight soak it in ammonia water as

directed for the weighted brush, then wash and rinse in

warm water, and hang out to dry.

The woolen cloths used in waxing, oiling, and polishing are too valuable to be
thrown away, and until they are really dirty they can be used again and again,
the oil and the wax with which they are saturated making them more valuable.
When, however, they do become dirty, they must be cleansed.

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of washing-soda in four quarts of boiling water,
and pour into a pail. Put all the woolen cleaning-cloths in this, and let them
soak for an hour, stirring them several times with a stick. C1dothfof At the
end of this time add a gallon or more boiling water to the contents of the
pail, which place in the sink. With the stick work the cloths about in this
water for a few minutes, then pour off the water, and add hot soapsuds, and
work them, as before, with the stick. Rinse them in fresh hot water. All the
dirt and soda will have been washed out in this manner. Put two quarts of warm
water and a tablespoonful of linseed-oil in a pail. Rinse the cloths in this,
and put them out to dry. The soda will have removed all the dirt and wax, and
also some of the natural oil of the wool. The oil is put in the last water to
replace the oil washed from the wool and thus keep it soft.

The pieces of carpet used in polishing must tacies for receive the same
treatment. All materials used polishing in oiling and polishing must be kept in
covered ^doths! non-combustible receptacles, because these materials are liable
to spontaneous combustion. Stone jars with covers, or tin pails or boxes, make
safe receptacles for cloths saturated with oil or turpentine.

Casters or rubber pads on furniture ruin a fine floor. Felt pad« Have that part
of every piece of furniture which for rests on the floor covered with thick
felt. This farmture" is glued on. With this felt finish, heavy pieces of
furniture can be moved with great ease.

The thick felt which may be purchased at the paintTo futan supply shops is the
best for this purpose because

felt on of its thickness, but it is very expensive. Old re" felt hats may be
used instead.

Cut the felt to fit exactly the bottom of the foot of the piece of furniture.
Spread on this, and on the surface to be covered, a thin layer of glue, and
fasten in place. In the case of heavy pieces there will be pressure enough to
hold the felt firmly in place, but chairs and light tables should have
additional weight placed upon them.

PIAZZA FLOORS

Taken all in all, oiling is the best treatment for piazza floors. Use clear
boiled linseed-oil, very hot. Have the piazza perfectly clean and dry. Apply
the hot oil with a brush. Let this dry for a day, and then apply a second coat
of hot oil. The next day give a third coating of the hot oil. When this dries,
rub the piazza smooth with clean pieces of old carpet.

The more oil the boards absorb, the better they will look and the less danger
there is of decay. After this first

thorough treatment with oil, all that will be reeervative" quired in the future
is an oiling whenever the

boards begin to look dry and rusty. After the thorough oiling and rubbing such
floors can be varnished. It is important that a 'good "outside" varnish should
be used. The person cleaning and polishing floors should wear soft, clean
slippers.

CHAPTER XIII

TREATMENT OP WOOD FINISHES

To restore color and finish to wood. Summary. How to make pads for wood
finishing. To clean and restore the polish on woods. Summary. To clean the
woodwork of furniture.

The woodwork of the finish and furniture of the house is often in need of
slight repairs for which it is not worth while to call in a regular cleaner and
restorer, even if it is always possible to find such a person. If one knows
what to do in such cases, all these , finishes may be kept in good condition
with a slight outlay of time and strength. It is, in fact, analogous to the
care of the household linen, where the stitch in time saves nine.

TO RESTORE COLOR AND FINISH TO WOOD

A piece of furniture, a door, or a mantel has been scratched, stained, or
otherwise marred; it is a constant annoyance, and what a relief it is to be
Jjj£J^t able one,s self to give it the little careful treat- can somement that
is necessary! If the following directions are put in practice the work may be
success- paages.m fully done by any one.

The marred place must be rubbed smooth with the finest grades of sandpaper.
Take a small piece of paper not more

than two inches square, and rub the spot gently until the surface is as smooth
as glazed paper. There should be no appearance of lines or scratches on the
wood. vrit^sand- condition can be reached only by light,

paper. gentle rubbing, and it may take several pieces of sandpaper to do the
work. If the marred place is large or deep use a medium grade of sandpaper at
first, and finish with the finest.

Wipe all dust from the spot, then oil it. Make several small pads, not larger
than a walnut. Wet a pad with Applying paraffin-oil, then with shellac. Touch
the surparaffin- face of the damp pad lightly with the color

°and'ontor* ^0U arG about to use, and ^ gen% on *ne spot. The motion must be
light and even, a

gliding movement. If pressure is used at first, and if the pad is raised and
lowered, the surface will be cloudy and uneven. This is true of any polishing
when shellac is used. Put a little more oil, shellac, and color on the pad, and
go over the surface once more. Do this again and again, until the desired color
has been obtained. When the pad becomes a little hard, take a fresh one. It may
require several pads to do the work. If it should happen that you get too much
color in the spot, it may be made light by wetting a clean pad with alcohol and
going over the dark place lightly and gently. If there are two or three shades
in the color that you wish to restore, the several pigments variety of sh0u^ be
put on the pad at the same time,

tone. just a touch of each, naturally using more of the predominating color;
as, for example, in mahogany, where Bismarck brown, yellow ocher, and aniline
black are used, Bismarck brown is the principal color, and there is only the
suggestion of aniline black. The dry powder is used in the method given.

The colors should be taken up on the point of a penknife or of a stick. It may
be thought by the beginner that it is a waste of time to go over the surface so
often, using such homeopathic doses, but it is the only way to bring up the
color to match the old shade. The movement of the Neea of hand and arm must be
free and sweeping, the many appad gliding over onto the uninjured surface.
P1'0*'""18,

Before beginning the work, examine the finish carefully, and decide what colors
enter into its composition. You will find that woods of the same kind vary
greatly as to the shades of color in the finish. For ex- tanoeof ample, black
walnut in some pieces of furniture getting exhas yellow tones predominating,
while in other pieces red and black tones are more noticeable. A list of colors
for the different woods is given below, but you must use your own eyes and
judgment as to the amount of each required. After each fresh application of
color, examine carefully to see if you are getting in the right shades. It is a
good plan to practise a few times on old or new boards before attempting either
woodwork or furniture; you will be surprised, after that, to find how easy and
interesting the work becomes. Here is a list of colors for the woods in common
use.

Mahogany and cherry— Bismarck brown, with a little yellow ocher and a
suggestion of aniline black.

Black walnut—burnt umber, yellow ocher if yel- Colors of

low is required, Bismarck brown if red is required. woods in A' 1 common

Oak—raw or burnt umber, until the color comes. use. Light woods—raw umber.

Burnt sienna may be substituted for Bismarck brown, or it may be used with it.
When the cherry is a decided reddish shade, burnt sienna is best, and it may be
that no other color will be required.

SUMMARY

1. Examine finish to decide on colors to be used.

2. Make small pads.

3. Have small bottles of shellac, turpentine, paraffin, or boiled linseed-oil.

4. Sandpaper the marred place, and then dust thoroughly.

5. Oil the sandpapered place.

6. Wet pad with oil, then with shellac, then put on a light coating of the
color.

7. Rub the spot with pad, letting the motion be light, free, and gliding.

8. When pad begins to dry, wet with oil and shellac, and add a little color;
continue this until required color is obtained.

9. Change pads for fresh ones whenever they begin to grow rough and hard.

10. Remember that the rubbing must be light and even, and that shellac will not
admit of friction, the surface becoming rough and clouded when hard rubbing is
used in the first application. As the surface begins to dry, the pressure may
be increased slightly (this is at the end of each application of oil, shellac,
and color).

Dents in wood may be removed in the following manner: Take several thicknesses
of soft brown paper and soak in Method of not water- Lay this wet pad on the
dent, put removing one or two thicknesses of wet cloth over this,

dents in an(j then lay a red-hot iron over all. As soon wood.

as cloth and paper are nearly dry, wet and apply again, as before. If the dent
is deep it will take several applications of the wet materials and hot iron to
raise it. A dent in wood is only the layers pressed more closely together than
is natural; the heat and moisture cause the fibers to swell and fill the
original space.

If the dent is small, a hot poker will answer for the work; on a large place a
shovel may be used. When the dent is not deep, polishing with oil, shellac, and
color, if needed, will answer all purposes. Follow the directions given for
color and polish.

HOW TO MAKE PADS FOR WOOD FINISHING

Make smooth, hard little rolls of cotton batting about the size of a small
walnut; cover these with bits of old linen, cotton, or cheese-cloth. Leave the
ends long enough to get a firm hold. Fasten by winding a thread round the cloth
where it is drawn over the ball of cotton.

The points to be especially careful of in making these pads are that the ball
of cotton should be smooth and firm, and that the cloth must be drawn smoothly
over it and tied securely.

TO CLEAN AND RESTORE THE POLISH ON WOODS

In the course of time finely polished woods become dull and cloudy; the
dampness in the atmosphere also has this effect on polished surfaces. The
brilliancy and luster may be restored by thorough rubbing with the proper
appliances. The methods here given may be used on the finest finishes, be they
oil or varnish; but the treatment is not intended for waxed surfaces.

Rottenstone, pumice-stone, tripoli, all finely powdered, turpentine,
paraffin-oil, alcohol, felt, soft cotton, Appiiail(!es and linen cloths will be
required for the work, necessary Willingness and strength to rub carefully and
?orre0s^" thoroughly are also essential. "flgpo

Take a small block of wood about the size of a brick,—a brick, in fact, will do
very well,—and cover it with several thicknesses of cotton batting; over this
put several thicknesses of old cotton cloth, and finally th^ruttbfr. lay on two
or three thicknesses of old linen. The various layers may be sewed in place.
This is the "rubber." Two pieces of felt, each about eight inches long and five
wide, will be needed.

Mix together enough rottenstone and oil to make a paste the consistency of thin
cream. Spread this on the surface to be polished, and rub with one of the

Method of pieces 0f felt, using at first a circular movement, restoring r 0

polish. then rubbing across, and finally with, the grain

of the wood. The oil and rottenstone should

be renewed whenever needed, and on no account should the

rubbing be continued when the rottenstone gets so dry that

there is the least friction, which would cause slight markings

on the varnish. When the movement of the felt begins to

be slightly impeded, put a little more oil on the surface to

be polished. When the desired luster has been obtained,

continue to rub gently until all the oil and rottenstone have

been worked off. Then rub with the clean felt until the

surface is dry and brilliant. The finish is now cleaned and

polished; but it will not keep in this condition if there is not

a final dressing with oil.

Wet a soft cloth with a mixture, half paraffin-oil and half

turpentine. Rub the wood well with this, and let it stand

about an hour; then sprinkle with the fine tripoli,

Final and stand agajn an hour or more to absorb dressing of

oil. any oil there may be on the surface of the finish. Wipe off the tripoli,
and polish with the linen rubber, rubbing with the grain of the wood.

When applying the oil and rottenstone with the felt, the pressure must not be
too great, as there is danger of cutting Manner of through the varnish. The
movement must be applying regular, and continued long enough to produce a

stone^etc %00^ dea^ of neat- Only a portion of a large surface should be done
at a time. Pumice-stone may be used on oiled surfaces, or on finishes that are
not very fine or that are very dirty. On a flat surface like a table the oil
may be poured on, and the powdered rottenstone be sprinkled over it. If it is
not convenient to use paraffin-oil, linseed-oil can be substituted.

Instead of the oil and rottenstone or pumice-stone, the furniture-cleaner and
-polisher may be used.

The felt for applying the oils may be bought at a painter's supply shop. As it
is expensive, after it has been used it should be washed thoroughly in hot soap
and water, and rinsed in a hot solution of sal-soda, ^^nt then rinsed in plenty
of clear water, and dried. Old felt hats may be used instead of the felt one
gets at the paint-shops.

There are other modes of polishing dulled surfaces, but I consider this the
best, and will not, therefore, give the others.

SUMMARY

1. Mix oil and rottenstone to the consistency of thin cream.

2. Spread some of this mixture on the surface to be polished, and rub gently,
regularly, and for a long time with a piece of felt, renewing mixture or oil
when needed.

3. Finish polishing with clean piece of felt.

4. Oil, and let stand one hour.

5. Sprinkle with tripoli, and let stand an hour or more.

6. Wipe off tripoli, and polish with linen rubber.

TO CLEAN THE WOODWORK OF FURNITURE

Varnished woodwork, when it becomes very much soiled, may be washed with soap
and water, if the varnish is unbroken. But if the varnish is worn off, or if
there is a scratch deep enough to cut through the varnish, water should not be
used until the surface has been soaked in oil for some time. When the wood is
unprotected by varnish or oil, the water penetrates it, and makes a dark stain,
which grows darker with time and spoils the appearance of the

When soap and water may be used on varnished woodwork. wood. It is necessary,
therefore, to examine the wood carefully before beginning to clean it. However,
it is always safe to use the oil first, as it not only penetrates the wood, but
it also softens the dirt.

1. Pour some paraffin-oil in a saucer; dip a soft cloth in this and go over the
soiled woodwork, making it quite wet Method of w^ t*"s stand an hour or two.

cleaning 2. Make a strong suds with soap and water.

varnished Wet a woolen cloth in this, and wash the wood, woodwork

using a good deal of pressure in rubbing the surface. When the woodwork is
clean, wipe it dry.

3. Put into a bottle one pint of paraffin-oil and half a pint of turpentine;
shake well. Wet a soft cloth with this mixture, and go over the cleaned wood.
Let it stand a little while to evaporate; then rub with a dry linen or cotton
cloth, rubbing briskly. It gives the surface a finer polish if, after the
rubbing with the linen cloth, a fresh linen cloth, wet with a mixture of one
part oil and three parts alcohol, is nfbbed lightly and quickly on the polished
wood. Alcohol or vinegar may be substituted for the turpentine, if the odor is
disagreeable.

When the woodwork does not require cleaning, but looks dull or faded, polish
with the turpentine and oil.

If a piece of furniture has stood near a window, register

or other heating apparatus, the oil will be evaporated from

that part that has been exposed to the heat of When •

faded by sun or to hot air, and wu^ become faded and exposure to full of fine
lines. To remedy this, oil the surface oTho°faix witn Pure foiled linseed-oil,
rubbing it in well, maybe Several oilings may be required to bring back the ^
J®4 finish and color. If parts of furniture thus exlinseed-oil. posed are
watched, and oil is promptly applied as soon as it is needed, much trouble will
be saved. Treatment Carvings and the grooved parts of furniture must carvings,
be oiled with a small brush kept for this purpose.

The above methods are for oiled or varnished furniture. If the finish is wax,
the cleaning must be done with turpentine and the surface polished with wax.
(See Encaustic No. 1.)

To clean the woodwork of waxed furniture, wet a woolen cloth with turpentine,
and go over the soiled surface, rubbing briskly. When all is cleaned, spread
the Tociean softened prepared wax on a woolen cloth, and woodwork rub this on
the surface to be polished. Let it stand an hour, if possible; then rub with a
brush; follow this by another rubbing with a woolen cloth. If this rubbing is
followed by a brisk rubbing with cork, the luster will be much finer; but in
any case the friction must be thorough enough to remove all traces of the wax
and leave a brilliant polished surface. While a thorough polishing of a surface
finished in oil is always desirable, a moderate amount of friction will answer;
but when wax is used, it is absolutely necessary that there is thorough rubbing
with some woolen substance. For this reason, unless one has a strong man to do
the work, it is better to use the oil and turpentine, oil and alcohol, or oil
and vinegar.

The cork may be purchased at a paint-supply cork for shop or at a
chemical-supply shop. It comes in polishing, sheets or large disks. Before
using it, make the surface smooth with fine sandpaper.

CHAPTER XIV

OILS: THEIR USE AND BEHAVIOR

Lubricating oils. Cleaning oils. Oils used as foods and medicines. Cotton-seed
oil. Castor-oil. Cod-liver oil. Spontaneous combustion.

Oils are so continually in use in every department of the household that they
are an important element in the domestic management. They enter into the
composiKofTheir'e ^on of paints and varnishes, into the substances action and
used in the finishing and cleaning of woods, metttP?^a" als, machinery, etc.,
and into the making of many essential, of our foods and medicines. Ignorance of
their source, action, and application often leads to their wrong use and
renders them worthless.

As space is limited, it will only be possible to make the briefest mention of
the oils most commonly used in and about the household.

Oils may be divided into three classes—animal, vegetable, and mineral; and
these, from their characteristics, are again classified as fixed and volatile.

The term " fixed " may be defined as made fast, firm, stable, not wandering. If
we spill a few drops of oil on a paper, Definition and then expose the stain to
the action of air and °fvohitiled ^S^t for a few days, we can determine whether
oils. the oil is fixed or volatile. If it is a fixed oil the stain will be as
apparent after this exposure as when it was first made; sometimes it will even
be darker. If, on the other hand, all traces of the stain have disappeared, the
oil is volatile; that is, it is unstable, and passes off by evaporation. We can
make this test more quickly by placing the stain near a heated surface.

All mineral oils are volatile; hence we can use them for cleaning and other
purposes where it is desirable that all traces and odor of the oil should
disappear quickly. The mineral oils are petroleum, which is found M^al already
formed in the earth in almost every quarter of the globe, and other oils
obtained by the distillation of bituminous bodies, such as cannel-coal,
coal-tar, etc. We are familiar with the products of these oils in the form of
crude petroleum, kerosene, naphtha, gasolene, etc.

The vegetable oils fall naturally into two classes— the fat oils and the
essential oils. Of these the fat oils are fixed, and the essential oils are
volatile. The essential oils, of which there are many, are pro- Ej^j^ duced in
nearly every part of the various plants oils, except in the cotyledon of the
seed, where the fixed oil is found. These oils are obtained from the plant by
pressure, by distillation, by solvents, and by maceration. The most familiar
example we have of obtaining oil by pressure is the process by which the oil is
extracted from the rinds of fruit. The thin yellow rind of lemons, oranges, or
limes is finely divided and then subjected to great pressure. Or the method
used in the kitchen is more common still: the rind is scraped off by the
grater, or a piece of lump sugar is rubbed over the rind. In any case the
object is to break the oil-ducts and press out the essential oil. Most of the
essence or oil of commerce is obtained by distillation.

By maceration is understood the process by which the essential oil of delicate
flowers and plants is obtained. Melted fats have the power of absorbing
essential oils from vegetable substances. The petals of flowers are placed in

melted fat and allowed to rest there until they have parted

with their perfume. They are then removed, and fresh

ones put in their place. This is continued until the fat has

absorbed the required amount of perfume. In the kitchen

this principle may be used to advantage in the cooking of

certain vegetables. (See "Cause of Strong Odors, Flavors,

and Colors in Vegetables.")

The fixed vegetable oils are obtained from seeds and

fruits. These are sometimes crushed and pressed cold,

sometimes heated and pressed, and sometimes

Drying and boiled in water, to extract the oil. The oils pronon-drying

oils. cured in this way may be divided into two classes —drying oils and
non-drying oils.

Nearly all fixed oils absorb oxygen freely when exposed to the air. The effect
of the oxygen is to cause the oils either to harden or to turn rancid. The oils
that harden are called drying oils, and those that turn rancid are known as
nondrying oils. The drying oils that the housekeeper has most to do with are
the three forms of linseed-oil—common linseed-oil, cold-drawn oil, and boiled
oil.

The common linseed-oil is obtained from the crushed seeds heated nearly to the
boiling-point and then pressed. This oil is brown in color.

Cold-drawn linseed-oil is obtained by pressing

Cold- the crushed seeds without heat. This oil is of a drawn . linseed-oil.
light color and is more expensive than the common oil.

Boiled linseed-oil is the pressed oil boiled for an hour or more with powdered
litharge, sulphate of zinc, sugar of lead,

or some other substance to increase the drying Boiled lin- J 6

seed-oil. Power.

In oiling floors and other surfaces where it is important that the oil should
dry quickly, the boiled linseedoil should be used. Indeed, the boiled
linseed-oil should always be used on the floors and inside finishes of the
house.

Alcohol dissolves linseed-oil, as do turpentine and kerosene to some extent.
When oiled surfaces, like floors, become dark and soiled because the boards
were not properly polished after the oiling, they may be j*^^ cleaned with
turpentine or kerosene, unless the Unseed-oil. stain is of long standing, in
which case alcohol may be used. Hot alcohol has a much greater solvent power
than the cold. If the alcohol is to be used hot, it should be put in a bottle,
which may be placed in a dish of tepid water. Heat the water gradually to the
boiling-point. Keep the bottle in the hot water while applying the alcohol to
the floor.

Linseed-oil being a fixed oil, and containing a resinous substance, particles
of dust are apt to attach themselves to the surface on which it has been used,
unless there has been great care in polishing. By combining the linseed-oil
with alcohol, turpentine, or even with kerosene, a volatile element is added,
and the process of polishing and drying is hastened.

For woodwork that requires a thorough oiling nothing but a little turpentine
should be added; and for an outside exposure, like doors, piazza floors, etc.,
only the pure oil should be used, and in this case the ordinary oil answers all
purposes.

Paraffin-oil is a product of petroleum, or of the distillation of bituminous
bodies. It is the oil that passes over after kerosene, and is a much heavier
oil than the latter. This oil must not be confounded with the oil solid white
paraffin, a great portion of which is obtained from petroleum and bituminous
products. Nor must it be confused with the English paraffin, which is the
kerosene manufactured from bituminous bodies.

Paraffin is a pale-yellow oil. It contains little, if any, resinous substance,
and it is excellent for polishing furniture or woodwork when a very fat oil is
not required. It may be used in the pure state, or mixed in any proportion with
alcohol, turpentine, or vinegar.

LUBRICATING OILS

Some of the qualities essential in the lubricating oils in use in the household
are: "(1) Freedom from a tendency to Essential &um or oxidize; (2) sufficient
body to keep the surquaiitiesin faces between which it interferes from coming
in 1UboUsting contact; (3) the greatest fluidity consistent with 2; (4) absence
of acid and other properties injurious to materials in contact with it" (James
Cameron).

The housekeeper will find the best sewing-machine oil sufficient for all
lubricating purposes. Half a pint or even half a gill of this oil will last a
long time. For oil win lawn-mowers and such heavily working machines dissolve a
good sewing-machine oil is all that is required. substances. Even when
exercising the greatest care in purchasing a lubricating oil, one sometimes
gets one that is adulterated with a resinous oil. In that case the article
oiled "gums up" and will run hard. Kerosene-oil will dissolve this gummy
substance. Pour it on the article freely (first, of course, protecting floors
and other near-by objects), and set the machinery, door-hinges, locks, or
whatever may have been "gummed," in rapid motion. Then clean off with a soft,
clean cloth, and oil with the machineoil. It must be remembered that kerosene
merely cleans; it is not a lubricating oil.

No drying oil, or intermediate oil, i. e., half-drying oil, such as castor-oil,
cotton-seed oil, etc., should be used as a lubricating oil.

CLEANING OILS

Among the cleaning oils, the most important are gasolene, naphtha or benzene,
benzole, and oil or spirits of turpentine. These oils are exceedingly volatile,
and give off inflammable vapors. When using them for cleaning, the room
Cleaning in which they are should be well ventilated, and °j^^a" care should be
taken not to bring them near fire, inflamlamps, candles, or any other light.
mable.

Oil or spirits of turpentine is made from the pitch-pine tree. The bark of the
tree is removed, and the resinous liquid is collected and distilled with water.
What MuBt not passes over is oil or spirits of turpentine; the resi- be used in
due remaining in the retorts is rosin. Oil of tur- olea^B u pentine, when
fresh, has not a strong odor, and is clear in color. On exposure to the air it
absorbs oxygen, darkens, becomes resinous, and acquires a strong odor. It
should not be used for cleaning fabrics when it is old, as it will then leave a
stain of its own.

Turpentine dissolves grease, wax, and tar. It is useful in cleaning waxed
surfaces, and is sometimes used in the laundry for whitening clothes. It is
valuable for making preparations of either wax or oil, for polishing wood and
tiles, and it is also valuable as a medicine. It is one of the articles that it
is wise to have always in the house; it should be kept in a well-corked bottle.

Benzene and naphtha. The substances sold under these two names are practically
the Same thing, although Benzene benzole, being a French term for benzene, is
some- and naphtimes sold under that name.

Naphtha is a product of petroleum. It is the oil that passes over after
gasolene and before kerosene. As it is exceedingly volatile and gives off
inflammable vapors, the greatest care must be taken in using it in the house.
Windows should be opened, that the vapors may pass out at once.

If it is properly used it is one of the best friends the housekeeper has. It
dissolves fats, turpentine, asphalt, and rubber. Being volatile, it may be
poured on clothing, carpets, furniture, floors, etc., without fear, for in a
few hours every trace of it will have disappeared. It also kills insects Great
dan- anc* vernnn- But there is apt to be danger in its ger in use, as the
volatile vapors, when mixed with oxynaphtha ^en, are S0 inflammable.

owing to its With windows open, however, and an entire abw^'naii" sence of fire
or light of any kind, there is no danger, tiei. and the housekeeper may clean
her fabrics, pack Naphtha awav her furs, flannels, rugs, etc., with perfect wiu
exter- ease and safety by the aid of this agent, provided minato g^g
superintends the work, or does it herself, and takes the precautions here
outlined. After naphtha has been used in a room, the windows of that room
should be left open for several hours, or, better, they should remain open all
day. If one finds that some room or bed in the house has become infested with
bugs, two thorough applications of naphtha will exterminate them.

Articles that have been cleaned with naphtha should be aired for some time
before they are brought near a lamp or fire.

Benzole, or benzene, as it is sometimes called, is one of the products of
coaf-gas manufacture. It is made from

coal-tar, and acts very much like naphtha. It product of evaporates a little
more rapidly, perhaps, and thus coal-gas. is less likely to leave a trace of
its use on delicate

fabrics.

Gasolene is a product of petroleum. It is a more volatile oil than naphtha.
When petroleum is being purified, gaso

Caremust lene passes over at a lower temperature than be exer- naphtha. It is
an excellent agent for cleaning; cisedin the most delicate fabrics may be
soaked and USoienI.aS" washed in it. However, the same precautions that must be
taken in using naphtha are required in using gasolene. Gasolene-stoves should
not be filled, moved, or jarred violently while lighted.

OILS USED AS FOODS AND MEDICINES

The oils used as foods and medicines belong to the nondrying or intermediate
class of oils. The non-drying oils absorb oxygen, as do the drying oils; but
the ef- Effect rf fect of the oxygen is to cause them to grow ran- oxygen on
cid; therefore, in keeping them, they should be non0^riDS protected from the
air.

Olive-oil, also known as sweet-oil or salad-oil, is made from the unripe fruit
of the olive-tree. There are several grades of this oil, the finest being the
virgin oil. In making 0live-oil this oil the fruit is torn, not crushed, and
very little, if any, pressure is used. This process gives an oil of the finest
and most delicate flavor. By this means only a small portion of the oil is
extracted from the fruit. The second grade of oil is made by pressing the cold
pulp of the fruit from which the virgin oil has been extracted, in bags or
baskets made from some inodorous material. The third grade is made from the
pressed pulp, which is mixed with cold water and pressed again. This pulp is
treated with water once more, heated, and pressed.

Another method is to subject the pressed fruit to a gentle heat after the
virgin oil has been extracted, and to press the oil out. Still another method
is to mix the crushed fruit with boiling water and then press. Sometimes the
crushed fruit is allowed to ferment before the pressing, or the fermented fruit
is boiled in water and the fat skimmed off. Finally the different waters from
which the oil has been skimmed are allowed to stand, and the particles of oil
that collect on them are skimmed off. This last is the poorest of all the oils,
and is known as the oil of the infernal regions. It is used for oiling stone
and tiled floors, and in making soap.

Much of the olive-oil sold at the present day is adulterated with other oils,
such as cotton-seed oil, lard-oil, nut-oil, poppy-oil, etc. Pure olive-oil has
a slightly greenish-yellow

tinge, little odor, and does not become rancid tion and" eashv* When chilled to
the freezing-point it color. begins to congeal in a granular mass. It may

be heated to 600° F. without burning, and it is one of the pleasantest and most
healthful of all the oils used as foods. Olive-oil should be kept well corked
in a cool, dark place. The cork, on being removed from a bottle of fresh oil,
should be washed, and the inside of the neck of the bottle wiped with a clean
cloth. Sometimes the cork is

dipped into an inferior oil to make it slip into the famishes ^ottle with ease;
hence the necessity of cleaning good oil. the neck and cork, that the oil in
the bottle may

not be contaminated. Formerly we depended upon Italy and France for our supply
of oil, but now we get a good article from California.

COTTON-SEED OIL

This oil is made from the decorticated seeds of the cotton-plant. In its
present commercial form it is of comparatively recent date.

The refined oil is of a pale-yellow tone; it has a very slight odor and a nutty
flavor. It solidifies at about the freezCharacter- ing-Point- Cotton-seed oil
belongs to the class isticsof that stands between the drying and non-drying
COttai{Seed oils. At its best and purest it is often employed as a substitute
for olive-oil. It has not the fine, delicate flavor or texture of olive-oil,
and can never replace it in the more delicate cookery; but it is a pure,
healthful vegetable oil, and one which will grow in favor as a food adjunct.

This oil is combined with beef suet and other suets, and sold under various
names. The initial syllable of the names of these compounds usually indicates
that the cotton-seed oil is one of the ingredients. The addition of these suets
gives a certain amount of solidity to the com- Suets are pound, making it
possible to use it for pur- added to poses for which the liquid oil would be
im- jjSH practicable.

When the oil itself, or one of its compounds, is used for frying, the odor
remains in the room more persistently than that of any ordinary frying-mixture.
No doubt the manufacturers of the oil will overcome this, as they have many
other defects.

The oil should be kept closed from the air and in a cool place.

CASTOR-OIL

This oil belongs to the class of drying oils. When pure it is thick, clear, and
of a pale-yellow color. When old or of inferior quality it is a greenish brown.
Exposure to the air and light turns it dark and rancid. It is one of the safest
and least irritating laxatives employed in the practice of medicine. Physicians
are coming back to a more general use of it than has been the custom for a
number of years.

A dose of castor-oil is a nauseating one, unless thoroughly disguised. There
are several methods of doing this. Some liquid with a pronounced flavor is
poured into a Various glass, the amount of castor-oil necessary for the methods

dose is poured on this, then the oil is covered with used in

■Usguisin the oil.

another layer of the liquid, so that the patient

takes the masked oil without tasting it. Lemonjuice, strong coffee, brandy,
whisky, etc., are some of the agents used for this purpose.

COD-LIVER OIL

This oil is obtained from the liver of the cod. The best quality for medicinal
purposes is manufactured with great care. The livers are taken from the fresh
cod, those that are not perfectly healthy being discarded, and the selected
Method of nvers are freed from membrane and thoroughly obtaining washed. They
are then chopped fine and put into

tSL

cod-liver a vessel which is surrounded with a steam-jacket,

and they are subjected to a heat of about 100' The oil is drawn off and
filtered, after which it is ready to be packed into air-tight vessels.
Cod-liver oil is sweet and of a bright amber color. This bright amber color
should be the test in purchasing the oil for medicinal purposes.

Cod-liver oil is a most valuable food adjunct in pulmonary diseases, or in any
condition of the body in which fat is not properly assimilated. It is often
readily digested when the amount of other foods necessary to nourish the body
cannot be taken.

Nourish- e^ect is to nourish the tissues of the body,

ingeffector thus giving strength; and in cases of consumption codoiiVer 't
checks the exudations of tubercular matter, and also diminishes the cough and
perspiration. This oil should be kept excluded from the air.

SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION

"Some of the fixed oils, especially linseed-oil, rape-seed oil, and olive-oil,
when absorbed by porous substances and freely exposed to the atmosphere, unite
with oxygen so rapidly as to generate a considerable degree of heat. Hence
paper, tow, cotton-waste, wool, shoddy, hemp, straw, shavings, etc., if
slightly soaked with such oils and left in a heap, inflame spontaneously.

"Spontaneous combustion ensues when a handful of cotton-waste is imbued with
oil and placed in an air-bath at a temperature of 130° F. to 200° F. Boiled
linseed-oil requires an hour and a quarter, raw linseed-oil four hours,
lard-oil four hours, refined rape-seed oil about nine hours, to inflame.

"Gellatly found that an admixture of twenty per cent, of mineral oil retards
combustion, and fifty per cent, prevents it completely." ("Oils and Varnishes,"
by James Cameron; London, J. & A. Churchill)

CHAPTER XV

STAINS

Stains on fabrics. Stains on wood.
STAINS ON FABRICS

Stains of all kinds are of constant occurrence in the household. There are many
simple remedies for removing

most of them. The simplest methods should altryWflrrt wavs be tried first.
Remember that the chemical the simple which removes the stain will generally
attack the for nam8' faDric, and therefore should be resorted to only ing
stains, when harmless remedies have failed. Nearly all

stains are easily removed when first made; after they have dried in the fabric,
or, worse still, if they have been washed with soap, the stain is fixed and is
difficult to remove.

Water is one of the very best agents for removing stains when they are first
made, and it has this advantage: it does not injure the material.

Chemicals are very valuable when used properly; but it must be remembered, when
using them, that the moment Value of have ^one their work in removing the stain

chemicals they should be removed by rinsing in abundance lf used6rly o^ co^
water, this followed by a neutralizing agent, which should also be followed by
a thorough rinsing. If an alkali, such as caustic soda, caustic potash, or
lime, is used, the neutralizer may be a few drops of acetic acid in a pint of
water; or, failing in that, any acid, like vinegar or lemon-juice, may be
employed, in which case teaspoonfuls will be required to take the place of the
drops of the acetic acid; that is to say, five or six teaspoonfuls of vinegar
or lemon-juice will be required to replace one of acetic acid.

In cases where acids have been employed to remove stains, neutralize with a
solution of ammonia—about a tablespoonful of household ammonia to a pint of
water.

If one knows the nature of the stain, the work of removing it may be undertaken
more intelligently and with better success than if working in the dark. The
agent 0ne muBt that will generally remove grease-spots—warm know the

water and soap—will often fix fruit and other "at?rf ■?

the stain to

stains. remove it

Cold, tepid, or hot water may be used on most successstains, and although it
will not always remove y' them, still it will rarely fix them. Blood stains,
however, are fixed by hot water, and softened and partially removed by cold or
tepid water.

Sometimes the agent that of itself makes a stain is useful in loosening or
changing the character of another stain, as, for example, the wetting of a
black-ink stain with red ink, or when lard is rubbed on the black stain that
sometimes gets on articles made on a sewing-machine.

When an article becomes stained, the first care is to learn the nature of the
stain; then the remedies may be applied.

Ink Stains.—Nearly all ink stains may be removed if treated at once; but even
then there is a great difference in the readiness with which the various
preparations of ink yield to prompt and careful treatment. For example, a stain
from some stylographic ink may be removed by thorough washing with soap and
water, while in the case of others the stain must be soaked in milk or some
other substance for a long time, even after it has had a thorough washing in
water. The stains from some makes of ink yield only to a chemical, and even the
strongest chemicals are sometimes powerless.

Cold or tepid water never fixes a stain; neither does milk; therefore these are
always safe to use in removing the greater part of the ink. If it is necessary
to use other agents after this, the work will be more rapid, and there will be
less danger to the fabric than if the chemical were required to remove all the
ink.

When ink is spilled, if it is an article that may be put into a basin of water,
do this immediately, rinsing the stain in repeated waters until no more ink can
be reInkbyTM moved in that way; then soak in hot or cold milk, soaking in sweet
or sour. This treatment may remove the WmUk°r stain at once, or it may require
several days' soaking in the milk. In some cases, however, there will remain a
distinct dark stain, which may be removed by soaking a few minutes in Javelle
water or in a weak solution of chloride of lime, or acids may be employed to
remove the stain.

Should the ink be spilled on a garment, carpet, floor,

table, or other article that cannot be washed and soaked in

Tttm ♦„ this manner, cover the stain at once with some How to re- 7

move ink- absorbent, like starch, flour, meal, shredded absorption
klotting-paper, etc. These substances will absorb the superfluous ink and
prevent it from spreading over a larger surface. After a few minutes remove the
first application of absorbent, and cover the spot „ . . with fresh material.
Continue to do this until

Using a

lemon to the substance applied is no longer soiled by

remove the ink. If you have a lemon at hand, cut off spots.

one end and take off about an inch of the peel, going over the stained surface
with the cut end of the lemon, rubbing gently. When the lemon becomes soiled,
cut it off, and go over the stain as before; continue this, paring the lemon a
little at a time, and trimming off the end as it becomes soiled. If this has
removed all the ink, rinse the spot with cold or tepid water, using a sponge or
soft cloth.

Should there be no color to injure in the stained article, the surface may be
sprinkled with common salt before each application of the lemon.

The foregoing method is for fresh stains. Any of the following methods may be
employed for old stains.

1. Lemon-Juice and Salt—Spread common salt on the stain, and wet with
lemon-juice; place in the sun. Repeat every day until the stain disappears,
rinsing the spot in clean water before each new application of salt and lemon.
When the stain is removed, wash the fabric, and rinse thoroughly.

2. Oxalic Acid.—With a sponge or piece of soft cloth, rub the stain gently with
a strong solution of oxalic acid. When the stain disappears, rinse thoroughly,
and neutralize with weak ammonia water. Or wet the finger in water, dip it in
powdered oxalic acid, and rub gently on the stained spot; continue this until
the stain disappears. If heat can be applied, the stain will disappear more
quickly. Wash and neutralize.

3. Oxalic Acid and Cream of Tartar.—Mix together one teaspoonful of powdered
oxalic acid and one of cream of tartar. Spread a little of the powder on the
stain, and moisten with lemon-juice or water; rub gently with the finger;
repeat until the stain is removed. Do this with heat, if possible. Wash and
neutralize.

In the three foregoing methods the work is hastened if the material worked upon
is warm. If the spot How to apis not large, the heat can be applied in this
man- plys^i°n ner: put a plate over a kettle of hot water, and spots, also
spread the stained part of the article on this; then °" fJSK? work as directed.
Use water or lemon-juice hot. ture.

If the stain is on a carpet, floor, or piece of furniture, first make the spot
warm by placing a warm iron or any other warm substance on it; then fill a
flat-bottomed earthen or china basin with boiling water; wet the stained spot
with the mixture to be used, then place the hot basin over it. In about two
minutes remove the basin, and rub the spot with fresh mixture; cover again with
the hot dish. Follow this until the stain disappears.

It must be remembered that oxalic acid is a poison, and should be so marked,
whether it is in the liquid or the powdered state.

With Red Ink.—Wet the ink stain with red ink, and wash in clear water, then in
soap and water. This method will remove some ink stains, but not all.

With Muriatic Acid.—Wet the stain, and spread it over a bowl of boiling-hot
water. Rub the spot gently with a glass stopper wet with the acid, then plunge
the spot in the hot water. It may be necessary to repeat this several times.
Rinse the article in ammonia water, and then in several clear waters.

With Javelle Water.—Cover the stain with Javelle water, and let it soak until
the stain disappears. Sometimes this will be in a few minutes, and again it may
take a long time. There are but few stains that resist this treatment. Rinse in
ammonia water and in clear water.

With Turpentine.—Soak the stain in turpentine and then rub gently. This may be
used on colored fabrics. The acids and other strong chemicals should not be
used on colored articles.

Sun and air Sometimes the sun and air will complete what will often the agents
used have only begun, and a stain that terially seemed to be fixed indelibly
often disappears when hung in the open air. Ink stains on painted or varnished
surfaces may generally be removed by encaustic No. 2. When the wood is unfin

ished the stain sinks into the fibers, and must be removed with a strong
solution of oxalic acid. When the stain is obstinate, add a teaspoonful of
cream of tartar to a gill of the oxalic-acid solution.

Blood Stains.—When the article stained is one that may be washed with soap and
water there is no difficulty in removing blood stains. Soak the article in cold
or tepid water; wash from this water, and then wash in warm water, using plenty
of soap. A white fabric may be boiled. If the stain is on a fabric or surface
that cannot be washed, cover with wet starch. When the starch dries, rub it
off, and repeat the dose of wet starch; continue this until the stain
disappears.

Green Stains, from grass or other vegetable substances, may be removed with
alcohol or kerosene. Wash the stain in kerosene (it will turn yellow), then
wash with soap and water, and the stain will disappear; or wash in alcohol.

Soot Stains.—These stains must always be treated with a dry solution if the
stain is on a carpet or other fabric. Rub the spot with any of the following
materials (continue removing the soiled material and add fresh until the stain
has disappeared): starch, flour, corn-meal, fullers, earth, and salt.

When the stain is on marble or wood, remove the greater part of it with dry
materials, and then wash with soap and hot water.

Eunning Colors.—When an article has been stained by coming in contact with a
colored fabric that has been wet with water, as a rule the stain may be soaked
out. As soon as possible after discovering the accident, put the article to
soak in plenty of cold water; at the end of ten or twelve hours wash it out of
this water, and dry in the sun.

Iodine Stains.—Wash the stain with alcohol, then rinse in

clear water, if the material may be washed.

Vaseline Stains.—The stains from vaseline are most difficult to remove. Ether
seems to be the only liquid that will dissolve vaseline. Sponge the stain with
it. This is too expensive an agent to use in large quantities.

Iron Rust may be removed by muriatic acid, oxalic acid, or lemon and salt. Have
a bowl of boiling water. Spread the stained place over this; touch with the
muriatic or oxalic acid, and when the stain changes to a bright yellow dip it
in the water. Rinse the fabric in ammonia water and then in clear water. The
salt and lemon-juice may be applied in this manner or on a hot plate, or the
wet stain may be put in the sun. Being a weaker agent than the muriatic or
oxalic acid, the lemon and salt take a longer time to remove the rust. To
remove rust from iron or steel, wet the stain with sweet-oil, then cover with
powdered quicklime. In a day or two rub off the mixture. If all the rust has
not disappeared, repeat the application of oil and lime, then clean with oil
and rottenstone, if the articles happen to be of steel; if common utensils,
wash in strong soda-water, rinse with soap-suds, and wipe very dry.

Fruit Stains.—Spread the stained article over a large bowl, and pour boiling 
water through it until the stain disappears; or soak the stain for a short time
in Javelle water. Another method is to soak the article in a weak solution of
oxalic acid. The last two methods are to be employed only when the boiling
water has failed, which it rarely does if used at once, except in the case of
peaches, which make a stain very difficult to remove. Fruit stains may be
removed with the fumes of sulphur. Wet the stain. Make a small funnel of stiff
paper, and cut a piece from the small end; then place a bit of sulphur in a
saucer, and set it on fire, covering it with the funnel. Hold the wet stain
over the small opening, and when clean rinse thoroughly. The work must be done
by an open window, and the operator must be careful not to inhale the fumes.
When you have finished, extinguish the burning sulphur by covering it with a
piece of wet paper. A small stain may be removed by burning a sulphur match
under the wet spot.

Wine Stains.—Cover the spot with salt, and at the first opportunity pour
boiling water through it. Should the stains have become fixed from having been
washed with soap, use any of the methods given for fruit stains.

Tea and Coffee Stains.—Treat these the same as fruit stains.

Chocolate and Cocoa Stains.—Wash with soap and tepid water.

Paint and Varnish.—Alcohol and turpentine dissolve these two stains. Use
turpentine on coarse fabrics, and alcohol on delicate ones. If there is a
suggestion of a stain after the paint or varnish is removed, sponge the spot
with chloroform or ether.

Grease-Spots.—When an article is washable, grease-spots may be removed with
soap and water. Grease-spots may generally be removed by the application of a
substance that has an affinity for grease. The simplest of all methods for
removing grease is by absorption. Powdered French chalk or fullers, earth,
mixed to a paste with water or turpentine, and spread on the grease-spot, will
absorb it. This should be allowed to stand for several days, and the
application then brushed off. Sometimes a second application of the paste may
be necessary. For dark materials ox-gall is sometimes used with the turpentine
and fullers, earth. If the ox-gall is decolorized, it may be used on light
materials.

Blotting-paper may be put under and over the grease-spots; a warm iron should
be placed on the top sheet of paper; change the paper until all the grease has
been absorbed. The spot may then be lightly sponged with chloroform or ether.

Candle-grease should always be scraped from the surface of'the article before
an absorbent or other agent is used. When the fabric is very delicate, as, for
example, light silks or cloth, try dry French chalk. Spread it on the stain,

cover with blotting-paper, and if time will not permit its

standing for twenty-four hours or more, use a Methods warm iron. for delicate

fabrics. Ether, benzene, naphtha, chloroform, turpentine, and alcohol all
dissolve grease. Only the most volatile agents should be used on delicate
colors; chloroform, ether, benzene, naphtha, and alcohol are, in the order
given, the most volatile. Alcohol is more liable to affect the color than are
the other agents.

It must be remembered that these liquids dissolve the grease, and that the
operator must remove it by sponging the spot gently. Well-washed cheese-cloth
is one of the best fabrics to rub with, as it does not leave lint, and is so
cheap that one may use a clean piece with every application.

When cleaning with any of the dissolving agents it is important that the
diluted grease does not spread over a larger surface than the original spot.
Spread the fabprevent TM' anc* Place a piece of blotting-paper under the the
grease stain. Spread a ring of French chalk or fullers' SPon* he S earth around
the grease-spot; then wet a cloth with fabric. the cleaner, and rub gently
toward the center of the spot. Work in this manner, changing the cleaning-cloth
frequently, until the spot has disappeared. Rub gently with a dry cloth until
the spot is perfectly dry. If any of the less volatile agents have been used,
and there is a slight ring around the cleaned spot, sponge gently with
chloroform.

Acid Stains.—When any common acid, such as lemon-juice, vinegar, muriatic acid,
etc., is spilled on a colored fabric, it often changes the color. If the spot
is lightly sponged with a dilute solution of ammonia,—one tablespoonful of
household ammonia to four of cold water,—the color will be restored. The work
must be done carefully, only touching the changed spot with the ammonia
preparation.

Alkali Stains.—Stains made with the ordinary alkalis should be sponged lightly
with a diluted acid, vinegar, acetic, or muriatic. Let the preparation be very
weak, and sponge the spot lightly.

White boards, matting, etc., spot a reddish brown when liquid potash is spilled
on them. Wash such spots with dilute muriatic acid, one tablespoonful of the
acid to two of water; then sponge with clear water.

Caution.—When mixing muriatic or sulphuric acid with water, always add the acid
to the water a little at a time. Great heat is generated by the combination of
the water and acid.

Pitch, Tar, Wheel-Grease Stains.—Spread lard on such stains to soften them;
then wet with turpentine. With a knife gently scrape off all the loose dirt.
Wet again with turpentine and remove the dirt with the knife. Continue this
until all the loose dirt has been removed; then sponge with turpentine, and rub
gently until dry. If the colors are light, finish by sponging with chloroform.

Mildew.—The removal of this kind of stain is more or less difficult, depending
upon the thoroughness with which the fabric has been affected by the mildew.
Light and recent stains may often be removed by wetting them, rub1 bing on
soap, and then covering the spots with wet starch. Spread the article in the
sun, and renew the application of starch and soap frequently.

Chloride of lime and Javelle water are both effective agents for the removal of
mildew. In light cases the stain may disappear in less than half an hour, but
where the stain is of long standing it may take twelve or more hours. Soak the
article in Javelle water or a solution of chloride of lime until the stain
disappears; then rinse thoroughly in several waters. (See "Javelle Water" and
"Chloride of Lime.") This treatment is only for white fabrics.

Scorched Stains.—Wet the scorched place, and rub soap

on it. Spread in the sun. Cover the spot with a thin mixture of starch and
water. It may require several applications of the soap and water and starch.

STAINS ON WOOD

Wood, finished and unfinished, is easily stained by various substances. In the
unfinished wood the staining substance sinks into the pores and is difficult to
remove; but, on the other hand, chemicals and other substances may be used with
greater freedom and safety on unfinished surfaces than on varnished and painted
woods, marbles, etc.

Alcohol dissolves the gums from which varnishes are made. Therefore, if
alcohol, or any substance of which alcohol forms a large part, as perfumery,
sweet spirits of niter,

stains' etc-, is spilled on a varnished surface, the varnish at once begins to
soften. The purer the alcohol, the more rapidly it dissolves the gum. If one
attempts to wipe the spot after the softening has begun, the varnish comes off
on the cloth. Instead of wiping off the alcohol, neutralize it by pouring on
some oil. Any kind will do, but sweet-oil, paraffin-oil, or linseed-oil is to
be preferred. * A surface that has been stained white with alcohol, or any
alcoholic substance, may often be restored to its former

To remove cojor and ponsn by rubbing it with kerosene, with white oil and
turpentine, or with oil and alcohol. If the

Stawood°m stam *s very deep, use ou and rottenstone or the Furniture Cleaner
and Polisher (see recipe). When the surface has been made rough as well as
stained, rub it gently with the finest emery-paper, dust, oil, and then To
remove polish with rottenstone and oil. andstaSi Stains made by heat may, if
they are not deep made by and are of short standing, be removed by rubbing
heat. them with hot milk. Kerosene, or any of the methods given for alcohol
stains, may be used.

Ink may be removed from finished surfaces by rubbing the

spot with encaustic No. 2. Oxalic acid is also an efficient

remedy. It may be poured on the spot, allowed

to stand awhile, and then wiped off. If that does ?o remove

, ink stains

not remove the stain wholly, add more acid, and from wood.

rub with a soft cloth. Sometimes several applications of the acid may be
necessary. This is particularly the case with a porous substance, like
unfinished wood.

Black stains caused by water or other liquids soaking into wood may be removed
by pouring the oxalic acid on them,

as suggested in the treatment of ink stains. _

00 To remove

The acid removes the color also, so that it should stains

not be used when a less powerful agent will an- oa"sed b/

w&t6r Gtc

swer. Of course, if the color is taken out it must

be restored. (See " To Restore Color and Finish to Woods.")

Grease stains on oiled, painted, or varnished surfaces may generally be removed
by hot water and soap; on the unfinished wood this is not so easy a matter. A
more certain method is to absorb the grease by greaseTM some substance, or to
combine it with an alkali; both of these remedies may be used at the same time.
A hot solution of potash may be poured on the grease-stained board, or, if one
has wood-ashes, a quart of ashes and a quart of water may be simmered together
for an hour, and then poured on the spot. If the grease stain is from hot fat,
these solutions will have to be renewed several times. Toremove

These strong alkalis leave a dark or yellow stain grease by on the white
boards. To avoid this, make the so- absorption lution into a thick paste with
lime. This paste SiaiL should stand on the floor at least twelve hours. On
handsome floors use fullers' earth and a weak solution of sal-soda.

CHAPTER XVI

MISCELLANEOUS MATTER

Some points on laying floor-coverings. The finishing, filling, and staining of
floors. How to prepare the filler. Staining with chemicals. The preparation and
application of stains. Summary. Points on mixing stains. Stains made from
colors ground in oil. Stains made from colors in powder. To graduate the
stains. Things important to remember. Gluing furniture and other articles. How
to mend plaster casts and picture-frames. To clean plaster casts. To wax and
stain casts. Care of small marbles and alabaster. To clean bronzes. To polish
the brass trimmings of furniture. Some uses of lime-water. Chloride of lime.
Liquid soda. Javelle water. Carbolic acid. Solution of oxalic acid.
Furniture-cleaner and -polisher. Encaustic No. 1. Encaustic No. 2. Wax for
polishing furniture. Materials for care of furniture and floors. Fullers,
earth. To clean with fullers, earth. To make scouring-balls. To clean with
scouring-balls. How to put new linings in boots and shoes. To clean combs and
brushes. To clean coat collars. Aids in darning large holes. How to revive and
straighten whalebone. To prevent stains showing through whitewash or paper. To
prevent the corners of rugs from curling. How to heat inflammable substances.
Precautions to be taken in cleaning. Frames for dress-waists and men,s
clothing. Convenient clothes-rack. Steel wool and steel shavings. Insects and
vermin. Cockroaches. Thermometers in the kitchen. The meltingpoint of some
metals and alloys. The melting-point of some fats and sugar. Bacteriology.
Household accounts, and the division of the income.

SOME POINTS ON LAYING FLOOR-COVERINGS

Carpet.—The durability and appearance of carpets, as well as the comfort of
those walking on them, depend largely upon the manner in which the carpet is
laid. Seldom can an amateur do this work as well as a trained workman, and
although one may save a few dollars by laying the carpet one's self, it will be
an expensive kind of economy unless it is well done.

A carpet of any kind that does not lie perfectly fiat gets twice as much wear
as one that fits snugly to the ueoessity floor. A loose carpet moves about
under the feet; of smoothly and a stiff material, like oil-cloth, linoleum, or
laid oarmatting, cracks in the slight folds that are made.

The surface on which the carpet is laid has much to do with its durability. If
the floor is rough and uneven, the carpet will not wear as long as if laid over
a smooth surface.

Woolen carpets should always have a lining under them; the smoother and more
even the lining, the better. There are many varieties of manufactured linings
that are excellent for this purpose. If one cannot ^TMet». afford the prepared
linings, thick layers of newspapers will answer. The regularly made pads should
be used on the stairs.

The floor on which the carpet is to be laid must be measured accurately. If the
carpet has a pattern, it should be studied carefully so that the breadths may
be Matching joined with the figures matching. Allow for figures turning in at
the ends. In sewing the carpet be carefullycareful to get it firm and strong,
and see that it does not full in the seam.

Lay the lining, and fasten it in place with the smallest kind of a tack. Spread
the carpet in position. Begin at one end, driving a few large tacks half-way
into place, so that they may be easily drawn out. M°yfng°f This is to hold the
carpet until it is tacked carpet, around the fireplace, in case there is one.
Now with' large tacks get the carpet laid smoothly around the mantel, then tack
it regularly. Work back from the mantel to the end where the carpet is held in
place with the large tacks. Readjust the end, and tack it firmly, drawing the
carpet very tight as you tack it.

Begin at the other side of the mantel, and tack that side. The carpet being
tacked at one end and one side, it must now be stretched, pulling it from the
tacked sides and ends. Put in large tacks, which may be drawn out again, to
hold it in position.

Begin tacking at the opposite end of the room, using the stretcher continually;
then finish by tacking the sides, still using the stretcher. Two people can lay
a carpet better than one, because one can tack while the other holds the carpet
firmly in place.

The most careful measurements must be taken, first for the lengths of the
carpet, and next for the places carefully. that must be cut—for example, to fit
round a mantel, doorway, or register. If there is a register, the space to be
left open should be Manner of measured and marked with chalk. The center of
carpltfor ^e space may then be pierced by the shears, and register. the cutting
done like this,

[graphic]

Fig. 5'

following the dotted lines. The pieces may be turned under, and if at any time
there should be need of changing the carpet to another room, they may be darned
together. In fitting the carpet to angles and jogs, the cutting should be done,
when possible, in such a manner that the places cut may afterward be sewed
together, if necessary.

Matting.—If the floor on which matting is to be laid is To lay not smooth,
cover it with papers. Cut the pieces matting. 0f matting long enough to admit
of their being

turned under. When a half-breadth must be used, the side that is cut should be
bound and placed next to the wall. One breadth of matting should never lap over
another.

When of the best quality, Canton mattings wear as well as a Brussels carpet.
The breadths are never sewed together; they may be laid so smoothly as to seem
almost a part of the floor. The cheaper grades, being woven loosely, do not
rest so firmly on the floor, and are easily broken. They are expensive at any
price.

Japanese mattings are very soft, pliable, and beautiful. The best are woven on
a cotton or linen warp. They are sometimes sewed together like a woolen carpet,
and are also tacked down edge to edge, as in the batting*, case of the Canton
mattings. When sewed they do not lie as smoothly as when each breadth is tacked
separately. Whether the mattings are sewed or tacked, pains should be taken to
have them fit the floor as closely as possible. In laying matting, use the
x.JTM5 double tacks when two edges come together, and mattings, the single ones
for the outside edges. When binding is used on a cut edge, match the shade of
the matting as nearly as possible. Old holland shades make an excellent binding
for matting.

Pretty mats can be made of the Japanese matting! Cut the mats the size desired,
draw out strands at both ends sufficient to make a fringe, and over- matting.
cast the edges.

It is a good plan to purchase enough of the matting to cut up for these mats,
which may be placed where there is the most wear. They are so fine and thin
that they seem almost a part of the floor-covering.

Oil-Cloth and Linoleum.—These coverings always stretch after they have been on
the floor awhile. When measuring them, an allowance of half an inch should be
made on all sides for stretching. After they have been in place a few weeks, it
may be found necessary to trim the edges an inch or more. If the carpet begins
to bulge up anywhere, immediately examine the edges, and you will find that
they are pressing against the walls. The trimming of the edges should be done
at once; for if the covering lies too full, even for a short time, it will
begin to crack, and its durability will be greatly diminished.

Tendency of linoleum and oilcloth to stretch.

THE FINISHING, FILLING, AND STAINING OF FLOORS

The workmen who lay the floor generally finish it ready for the polisher. This
is the case with all fine floors, but every one cannot afford perfectly made
and finished floors. Many people would be glad to dispense with carpets, if
they knew how to finish the ordinary floor so that it would look well and could
be cared for with ease. This chapter is written for such people.

The kind and quality of wood determines the treatment to be given the floor. A
hard, close-grained wood will not require a filler, and it will take a higher
polish than the soft woods.

We will take any common wood floor, just as the carpenter has left it. It has
been planed off, but the surface is not First step perfectly smooth. The first
step toward prepartoward ing this floor is to rub the boards down to
absoPthePnoor8 ^ute smoothness- For this purpose get a package

of steel wool, or steel shavings, of medium coarse- • ness. (See " Steel Wool
and Steel Shavings ".) Put on thick gloves. Take a wad of the wool in your
hand, and rub one board at a time until smooth. In rubbing let the ton^f the
movement be regular, but not too heavy. When flUer. the whole floor has been
gone over, brush up the dust, and if the wood be open-grained, go over it with
the filler, rubbing it in with a cloth. Close the room,

and let the floor rest for a day or more; then rub it down with clean, fine
excelsior. A second coat of filler and a second rubbing down with excelsior
will make the finish of the floor doubly fine; but the one coat will do, if
time and strength fail.

Now brush the floor, and with a damp cloth wipe off all the dust. It is now
ready to be waxed or oiled.

HOW TO PREPARE THE FILLER

Prepared fillers may be bought at any paint-supply shop,

or they may be prepared at home. The object in using

them is to fill in the minutest interstices in the

wood, and so give a uniformly even surface. The Th.e °^ect , . of using

foundation of wood-fillers is oil, turpentine, and fillers.

either whiting, corn or other starch, or flakewhite. A drier is often used. If
the wood is T^ftic0°TM^f°" dark, or the floor is to be colored, enough color-
fiUers. ing-matter is added to the mixture to match the color of the boards or
the color one wishes them to have. Sometimes, when it is desired to keep the
boards very light, oil is omitted; but the boards do not finish so well as when
oil is employed.

For Light Wood.—Use one pint of boiled linseed-oil, one and a half quarts of
turpentine, one pint of fine ^ whiting or corn-starch (or half whiting or corn-
making starch and half flake-white may be used). If the the differwood has
color, add enough color to make the e"oiors?d starch or whiting the same shade
as the wood. For oak use a little raw umber, not quite a teaspoonful if the oak
is white, more if it is dark.

For Dark Wood.—Use one quart of boiled linseed-oil, one quart of turpentine,
one pint of whiting or corn-starch. For mahogany add one tablespoonful of burnt
sienna, one fourth of a teaspoonful of yellow ocher, half a teaspoonful of
Bismarck brown.

Test the colon before using on floor.

When the filler is omitted.

which do not require a filler.

For Walnut—One tablespoonful of burnt umber, half a teaspoonful of Venetian
red, half a teaspoonful of yellow ocher.

For Ash.—One level tablespoonful of raw sienna. These ingredients must be mixed
very thoroughly, and a little be rubbed on a board to test the color; for the
coloringmatter varies in strength, and it is impossible to give the exact
proportions. In buying the colors get them in fine powder.

When the floors are stained with the powdered pigments combined with whiting
and oil, the filling process is omitted in the first treatment.

Some of the close-grained woods' in common use are bird,s-eye maple, cherry,
and sycamore; these, of course, do not require a filler. Among the open-grained
woods are oak, mahogany, the pines, spruces, etc., and these should be treated
with a filler.

If there are large cracks in the floor, fill them with putty before filling and
staining. If there is a great deal of this filling of cracks to be done, the
putty may be made by mixing linseed-oil and sifted whiting together.

If the floor is dark, a little color could be worked in with the whiting.

The working of the whiting and oil together to make a smooth paste is quite
laborious.

If the floor is old, or has been previously painted or varnished, all stains on
paint or varnish must be removed before the filler is applied.

Strong liquid ammonia or a strong solution of potash or washing-soda will
dissolve paint or varnish. If, at the same time, it is desired that the boards
be white, quicklime is used in the wash. All these substances are severely
caustic and destructive to hands and fabric; for this reason only worn-out
garments should be put on, and the hands protected

Bemoving previous coats of paint or varnish.

Use of ammonia, potash, quicklime, and washingsoda.

by old thick gloves, while one is doing this work. Care must be exercised, when
applying these caustic preparations, not to get a drop on walls, base-boards,
doors, etc. Strong household ammonia should be employed. It may be poured from
the bottle on paint or varnish. All the windows should be opened. In about half
an hour after the caustic has been applied, the paint or varnish will be soft,
and it may be scraped off. Wet the spot to be removed with hot water, and
scrape gently; continue this until the whole floor has been gone over. From
time to time take up the Selfsubstance scraped from the floor. A smooth hoe
wringing may be used for the scraping. When all is done, m°P wash the floor in
several clean waters, and wipe dry. A self-wringing mop must be employed in
washing the floor, as the caustic substance is injurious to the hands.

The soda and potash are used in the same manner. If soda is used, it should be
dissolved in boiling water in the proportion of six quarts of water to a pound
of soda. To prepare potash, put a pound of the crys- ^taJE* tals in a wooden
pail, and pour on them six quarts of cold water; stir until dissolved, and then
apply. The chemical action that takes place during the union of the water and
the potash raises the temperature so that the mixture becomes hot. If lime and
soda are to be mixed, put the soda in a pail with about a pound of quicklime,
and on this pour the cold water. soda. The lime will slack immediately, and the
soda will dissolve in the hot mixture. A combination of lime and potash is made
in the same manner.

To remove black or dark stains from the boards, pour a strong solution of
oxalic acid on them, and they Using ox. will disappear after a short time.
Should the alio acid to stain be very deep or old, it may be necessary to "Snj6
repeat the application of oxalic acid several times. The oxalic acid removes
color and leaves the boards acid.

When boards are to be colored by an alkaline substance, Heutraiiz- the cleaned
spot must be neutralized by the ap^fkaiinT plication of liquid ammonia or soda
before the substance, staining-material is applied.

STAINING WITH CHEMICALS

There are several chemicals that may be used to darken wood, and this is the
quickest and easiest method of stainCharacter- m& noor- These stains, however,
do not have istics of life or color, but they are soft and restful, and when
oiled, waxed, or varnished make a satisfactory floor.

A stain of potassium permanganate is made as follows: Mix together in a bowl
cold water and potassium permanganate in the proportion of half a pound of the
Potassium permanganate to four quarts of water. Let this ganate. stand several
hours. Pour off the liquid into another bowl. More water may be added to the
permanganate remaining in the first bowl. Apply this liquid to the boards with
a brush. Close the room, and let the floor dry thoroughly. A few hours will do,
but it would be better to let it stand for a day or two.

Rub the boards with a piece of clean carpet, and wax, oil, or varnish, as you
may prefer. If a dark color is desired, double the quantity of potassium
permanganate. When a very strong solution has been used the color is a purplish
brown.

Put two pounds of potash in a bowl, and pour on it four quarts of cold water.
Stir until the potash is dissolved.

Apply this solution to the boards with a brush, withpof- being careful not to
get any of it on yourself or ash. surrounding objects. When this is dry, rub
the boards, and finish in any way you wish. The potash solution does not darken
the wood as much as the potassium permanganate; its effect is to make the wood
look old.

Apply dilute nitric acid to the boards, allowing eight ounces of the acid to
each quart of water, and staining proceed as in applying potassium
permanganaten ^^"and°

Apply household ammonia as in the preceding household Cases. ammonia.

THE PREPARATION AND APPLICATION OF STAINS

At any good paint-shop you can get, for a dollar and a quarter, a gallon of
staining-liquid which will give you an imitation of almost any wood you want,
or S^^' you can prepare your own stain. The method which I shall give for using
the home-made stain applies also to the prepared article.

After filling the cracks in the floor with putty, see that

there are no paint-spots on the boards. Should there be

any, pour turpentine on them, and after a while

scrape off the paint. Wipe all dust from the floor, tfaepp^

then apply the stain with either a brush or a piece the stain.

of cloth. I think, however, it gives a handsomer

floor if you first rub in a little of the stain with the cloth.

Color only a board or two at a time, moving the brush with

the grain of the wood. When the floor is finished, _ .

, „ Leaveroom

close the room for twenty-four hours; four or five closed as

days will be better, if you can spare the room.

At the end of this time, pin a piece of carpet on

a weighted brush and rub the floor, one or two boards at a

time, until smooth and glossy. After the whole floor has

been treated in this manner, take the piece of carpet off

the weighted brush, and replace it with a clean piece. Now

polish the floor.

The floor may be varnished. In that case it How to

will never require polishing. Get the prepared floor

varnish at a paint-shop, and put it on with a brush,

being careful to draw the brush smoothly over the boards and with the grain. Be
careful to put the varnish on evenly, and to have only a thin coating. If you
ar3 going to varnish the floor, and do not own a weighted brush, you can get
down on your knees and do the rubbing with an old piece of carpet, or rub with
an old hair-bruch covered with carpet.

SUMMARY

1. Fill cracks, if necessary.

2. Remove stains and every particle of dirt, ^method 3- Rub boards smooth, and
wipe up all dust, ofstaining. 4. Rub a little stain in with a piece of cloth.

5. Go over the floor again, applying the stain more generously, but not rubbing
it in this time.

6. Let the floor dry for hours—days, if possible.

7. At the end of the drying-time, rub the floor with pieces of clean carpet or
woolen cloths. This rubbing is to be done in the direction of the grain of the
wood.

8. Apply finish or polish.

POINTS ON MIXING STAINS

The foundation of nearly all kinds of wood-stain which amateurs use is a
combination, chiefly, of boiled linseed-oil, Founda- turpentine, the earth
pigments, and some aniline tion of colors.

J^^' The pigments may be bought in two forms—in a dry powder, or ground in oil;
but better results 'may be obtained by using those ground in oil, although they
are more expensive in this form than in the powder.

Before mixing the stain there are several things to be decided upon—the shade
of color desired, the condition of the Points to floor, and the extent of
surface to be stained.

before^ ^ ^oor *s in ?ood condition, any shade of ginningto stain may be
applied; but if it is spotted and stain. dark, the stain must be dark. One may
have a dark floor that at the same time is bright in tone. This is obtained by
a generous use of the yellow and red pigments when mixing the stain. For
example, a combination of burnt sienna, chrome-yellow, burnt umber, and
Venetian red gives a dark floor, but one that *t^k has much warmth and life.
One can follow defi- which nite rules to get special shades and colors, or one
J^TM^ can work up a shade that shall harmonize with and life, one's
surroundings, and yet not be an imitation of any kind of wood. The following
formulae may be changed or modified at the will of the workman.

STAINS MADE FROM COLORS GROUND IN OIL

Light Stain.—One pint of boiled linseed-oil, one pint of turpentine, one
tablespoonful each of burnt umber and burnt sienna, and two tablespoonfuls of
chrome-yellow (colors ground in oil). This gives a light stain suitable for
pines and other light woods. It may be made several shades darker by adding an
extra tablespoonful each of burnt umber and burnt sienna.

Walnut.—One pint of oil, one pint of turpentine, two tablespoonfuls of burnt
umber, three of burnt sienna, two of chrome-yellow, and half a tablespoonful of
lampblack.

Antique Oak.—One pint of oil, one pint of turpentine, two tablespoonfuls of
burnt sienna, two tablespoonfuls of burnt umber, one tablespoonful of
lampblack. Mix very thoroughly.

STAINS MADE FROM COLORS IN POWDER

Dark Mahogany.

1 pint of boiled oil.

1| gills of turpentine.

3 tablespoonfuls of burnt sienna.

3 tablespoonfuls of whiting.

\ tablespoonful of yellow ocher or chrome-yellow.

i tablespoonful of Bismarck brown.

& teaspoonful of aniline black.

Light Mahogany.—Make the stain as above, omitting the black, and using less
burnt sienna.

Cherry.

1 pint of boiled oil.
1% gill of turpentine.

3 tablespoonfuls of burnt sienna.

2 tablespoonfuls of whiting.

Oak.

1 pint of boiled oil.
li gills of turpentine.

3 tablespoonfuls of raw umber.
3 tablespoonfuls of whiting.

Very Light Oak.—Make the same as above, using less umber and more whiting.
Antique Oak.—Add a little lampblack to the first mixture for oak.

lowed for The portions given in the formulae are for in formulae, about one
hundred square feet.

TO GRADUATE THE STAINS

It often happens that one does not care to imitate a particular wood, but would
like to get a soft medium shade. This is easily accomplished by adding burnt
umber, burnt sienna, and chrome-yellow in small quantities to the light

hard-wood stain, and then testing on a piece of board until the required color
is produced. I think this method gives the most satisfactory results. The
colors used, ground in oil, cost from fifteen to twenty cents a pound, and may
be purchased in pound boxes. Wood-stains to imitate any wood may be purchased
in paste, about twenty-five cents a pound, and you may thin it yourself to the
proper consistency, using equal parts of boiled oil and turpentine.

How to graduate color or shade in stain.

Cast of colors used in stains.

THINGS IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER

The longer a floor stands, after the stain is applied, before it is rubbed as a
preparatory step for applying the polish, the handsomer it will be when
polished. After TestBtaill the stain has been mixed, it should be tried on a
before appiece of planed board. The softer woods, such as t0 soft white pine,
will take a deeper color than hard woods; if there are any sappy places in a
board they will be darker than the smooth and hard parts. The strength in
colors varies, and it may be that the proportions which are given will, with
your colors, produce a lighter or darker effect.

GLUING FURNITURE AND OTHER ARTICLES

Certain conditions are necessary for success in gluing:

1. The surfaces to be glued together must be free from old glue, and from any
particles of wood, dust, conditions etc., that might tend to keep them apart.
necessary

2. The glue must not be too thick, nor spread ^»uoo?sson too thickly.

3. The two bodies must be fastened together very firmly until the glue has
hardened.

If all these conditions are fulfilled, there will be no trouble in gluing
successfully.

Scrape all old glue from the surfaces to be joined. Have

at hand some means of fastening the bodies together. Strong

cords or bands of cloth may be used, where one Method of 1 . ■

gluing. nas not a Vlse

Apply a thin coat of glue to both surfaces, and

bring them together, being careful to get them in the right

position. Fasten them firmly, and let them stand forty-eight

hours or more. Wipe off any glue that may have oozed out

from the joining.

One can now purchase a good quality of liquid glue, which obviates the trouble
and necessity of preparing a glue at home. If one prefers the latter, the
manner of making it is comparatively simple, if one owns a glue-pot.

Break the glue in small pieces, and cover it well with cold water. Let it soak
several hours. Half fill the outer pot

Preparing witn water, and for every pint of water add one the glue if
tablespoonful of salt; the water boils at a higher

made at temperature when salt is added. Place the inner home.

pot in this, and set over the fire, stirring occasionally. When the glue has
melted, thin to the proper consistency with strong vinegar.

Glue loses strength by frequent heatings; therethe amount fore Plan to neat
only as much as will be required required, each time.

HOW TO MEND PLASTER CASTS AND PICTURE-FRAMES

Collect all the pieces, and place the cast where you can work with ease. It is
well to have the cast, if small, on a board on which it may be lifted when
putting it away. This will obviate the necessity of handling after the cast is
mended.

Put a little white of egg in a saucer; stir into this enough fine whiting to
make a smooth, thin paste. Wet the broken parts with this, and press them
together gently but firmly. When all is done, wipe off any particles of the
paste that show. If bits of the cast are lost, fill in with the paste, and
spread a little very thin and newly prepared paste over this to give the
desired finish.

If there is a great deal of work to be done, prepare the paste several times;
it will dry and become rough if it stands any length of time.

White-and-gilt picture-frames may be mended in the same manner. If the gilt
part is lost, the repaired portion may be covered with gold-leaf, or, if the
frame is a cheap one, it may be touched with the liquid preparation.

TO CLEAN PLASTER CASTS

To clean plaster casts, cover them with fine dry whiting and fullers, earth.
Wrap them in a cloth, and let them stand a few days; then gently brush off the
cleaning-material. This will not always give a spotless cast, but it is the
safest method. If a wet substance is applied to them there is danger of
removing the thin coating, often changing the whole expression of a beautiful
cast. The better way is to have some sort of finish put on at the mower,s, or
one can do this at home.

TO WAX AND STAIN CASTS

Put a piece of common yellow wax, about the size of a large English walnut, in
a cup or bowl. Place the cup in a pan with a little hot water, and put over a
moderate heat until the wax is melted; then take the pan from the fire, and
beat one gill of turpentine into the melted wax. With a soft brush apply the
mixture lightly to the cast. When dry, rub down with a clean cloth until a good
polish is obtained. Apply the wax again, dry, and polish. Continue this until
the desired shade is obtained. If shadows and a dark background are desired,
add to the preparation left the tiniest bit of raw umber, emerald-green, or
blue. Brush the places to be darkened with this and rub as before.

From time to time polish with an old kid glove. Great care must be taken not to
get the cast too dark; this is apt to be a fault of an amateur.

Or the cast may be oiled with boiled linseed-oil, and then polished as when
waxed. If color is desired, it may be added to the oil.

If a cream color only is desired, use white wax and refined turpentine.

CARE OF SMALL MARBLES AND ALABASTER

Make a strong suds with tepid water and soap. To each gallon add a
tablespoonful of liquid soda. Wash the marbles in this, using a soft brush or
cloth. Rinse quickly and thoroughly. When dry, polish with a soft cloth.

TO CLEAN BRONZES

Dust the bronze, then rub with a cloth slightly moistened with sweet-oil. Rub
dry with a clean, soft cloth, then polish with an old kid glove or
chamois-skin.

TO POLISH THE BRASS TRIMMINGS OF FURNITURE

Mix together one gill of paraffin-oil, half a gill of naphtha, and enough
finely powdered tripoli to make a soft paste. Polish the brass with this, using
felt, as in polishing woods. Next dust with dry tripoli, and polish with a soft
linen cloth.

In polishing the brass ornaments or trimmings in furniture, it is desirable to
use an application that will be as beneficial to the wood as to the brass. This
is the case with the above mixture.

SOME USES OP LIME-WATER

Lime-water is made with quicklime and cold water. Put a lump of lime in an
earthen bowl, and half fill it with cold water; stir with a stick or wooden
spoon until the lime is dissolved. If it is very thick, add cold water to thin
it. Let this rest for two hours, and then pour off the clear liquid, being
careful not to take any of the sediment. Bottle, and keep for use.

For burns, mix one gill of the lime-water with on burns, one gill of sweet-oil,
bottle, and keep in the kitchen.

If soda has been used on white boards to take out grease,

the spot will become dark. Pour lime-water on To remove

this, and let it rest for half an hour or more, alkaline

stains on

then wipe. The board will have its original white white color. boards.

It is an anti-acid tonic, and is used with a milk diet when the milk disagrees
with the patient. A tablespoonful to half a pint of milk is about the usual
dose.

To test the purity of the air of a room, half fill a glass with lime-water. If
there is an excess of carbonic por testing acid in the atmosphere, a thin white
scum forms the air of a on the surface of the water. Lime-water can be room'
used to soften hard water. (See "Water—Tem- F?rgsnard" porary Hardness.") Use
one quart to ten of hard water, water.

CHLORIDE OP LIME

This is a good bleacher and disinfectant also. When it is to be used on fabrics
for either purpose, dissolve one eighth of a pound in two gallons of cold
water, stir with a stick for a few minutes to break up the particles of lime,
then let the mixture settle, and pour off the clear liquid for

use. The sediment will be useful in drains or on the soil. This preparation
should not be made in metal. Used as a In infectious diseases a pound of this
material disinfeo- will be of great use, if put in saucers and distribtant-
uted about the bathroom, halls, and sick-room. It is very caustic, and should
not be handled carelessly.

LIQUID SODA

Put one pound of sal-soda and one quart of water in a saucepan and on the fire.
The soda will have dissolved by the time the water boils. Let this cool, and
put it in bottles for future use; label the bottles, "Liquid Soda." This is a
convenient form in which to have sal-soda. A tablespoonful of it added to the
water in which clothes are boiled helps to whiten them, without the danger of
injury that comes from using the crystals. When kitchen towels are boiled a
little should be added to the water. Utensils in which food that leaves an odor
has been cooked may be made sweet by boiling them for fifteen or twenty minutes
in two quarts of water and a tablespoonful of the liquid soda. In fact,
whenever one wishes to use washing-soda, the liquid article is ready. Soda is
useful for cleaning tin and iron, for cleansing and sweetening the sink and all
vessels that are not painted or varnished.

It is the abuse of such agents that makes one hesitate to . recommend them. It
must be remembered that sal-soda is very caustic, and will destroy all fabrics
unless much diluted. It will destroy paint and varnish, and also color.

JAVELLE WATER

This water can be purchased at the druggist's, but one can prepare it quickly
at home, if liquid soda is kept on hand. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of
chloride of lime in one quart of water; let it settle, and pour off the clear
liquid; add to this one pint of liquid soda. For light stains this may be
diluted with its own volume of cold water.

Javelle water loses its strength in being exposed to light and air; it should
be kept well corked and away from the light. It is better to make only a small
quantity at a time. This preparation removes color, and must be used only on
white fabrics.

CARBOLIC ACID

This is a most valuable substance in the household. The best form in which it
may be purchased is in the white crystals, put in a bottle with a glass
stopper.

To make a solution of any strength, dissolve the crystals and add clear water.
Keep another bottle for the solution.

When you wish to dissolve the crystals, place several folds of paper or cloth
on the bottom of a small saucepan, and put the bottle on this. Fill the pan
with cold water, and place it over the fire. Have a gill of cold water in a
second bottle, and pour into this about two tablespoonfuls of the liquid
carbolic. This gives a solution of about twenty-five-per-cent. strength, which
may be diluted at pleasure. This bottle should be plainly labeled, "Carbolic
Acid—Poison."

For sore throat, make a gargle with a half-pint of water and a teaspoonful of
the solution. The same strength may be used to bathe stings of insects.

Bedroom floors or carpets wiped with a cloth wrung out of four quarts of water,
to which have been added two tablespoonfuls of the solution, may be kept in a
sweet and healthy condition. Plants may be freed from insects by spraying them
with a weak solution of carbolic acid—one tablespoonful of the solution to a
gallon of water.

In sickness, plumbing, clothing, toilet articles, etc., may be disinfected by a
proper use of the solution.

The odor of the freshly dissolved crystals is not so strong as that of the
solution which one buys ordinarily.

SOLUTION OP OXALIC ACID

Put four ounces of the crystals in an eight-ounce bottle, and add half a pint
of cold water. Shake well. This amount of water will not dissolve all the
crystals, but for a strong solution there should always be some of the
undissolved crystals in the bottle. Label plainly, "Oxalic Acid —Poison."

FURNITURE-CLEANER AND -POLISHER

Put into a quart bottle, in the order named:

1 gill of powdered rottenstone.
1 gill of cold-drawn linseed-oil.
1 gill of turpentine.
1 gill of naphtha.

1 gill of strong solution of oxalic acid.
\ gill of alcohol.

1 gill of cold water to which has been gradually added a tablespoonful of
sulphuric acid.

Shake well the contents of the bottle, and it is ready for use. Keep well
corked. Use this, as directed for rottenstone and oil, for cleaning and
polishing dull and dirty surfaces. This preparation will remove white marks
from oiled, varnished, or painted surfaces.

ENCAUSTIC NO. 1

To be used on furniture, floors, and marble. One pound wax; one pint
turpentine. Melt the wax over gentle heat in a water-bath. When quite soft,
remove from the fire and beat in the turpentine. If it is to be used on
furniture, beat in one gill of alcohol. If for floors, and the finish is
desired soft, add one gill of paraffin-oil and omit the alcohol.

ENCAUSTIC NO. 2

5 quarts boiling water.
4 ounces laundry soap.
2 ounces sal-soda.
1 pound wax.

Cut soap and wax fine, and put them in the water, and place on the range. Stir
frequently until dissolved, then add soda, and take from the fire. Stir almost
constantly until cool, then put in a vessel that can be covered closely. This
polish may be used for floors, marbles, tiles, and bricks. It will remove ink
from varnished surfaces. When heated and diluted with its own volume of
turpentine, it may be used for cleaning and polishing varnished or waxed
surfaces, tiles, marbles, etc.

WAX FOR POLISHING FURNITURE

Break up one pound of wax, and melt it to the consistency of thick cream, in a
bowl which is placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Take the bowl from the
fire, and gradually beat into the wax one pint of turpentine and half a pint of
alcohol. Put this away in covered jars; warm slightly when it is to be used.
Spread the thinnest layer possible on a soft woolen cloth, and apply to the
surface to be polished.

MATERIALS FOR CARE OF FURNITURE AND FLOORS

In the regular care of the interior finish and the furniture the following
materials will be found valuable. The powders should be kept in small glass or
wooden boxes, and labeled; they may then be kept in one shallow box, with the
other materials. The cost of the outfit is slight, but the convenience of
having these things at hand when required is great.

1 ounce burnt umber. 1 ounce raw umber. 1 ounce burnt sienna. 1 ounce raw
sienna.

1 ounce yellow ocher. 1 ounce Bismarck brown.

1 ounce aniline black. Whiting.
Turpentine. Alcohol.
Shellac. Paraffin-oil.
Boiled linseed-oil. Powdered rottenstone.

Prepared wax (encaustic). Woolen cloths.
Fine sandpaper. Steel wool, fine and coarse.

Felt. Powdered tripoli.

Powdered pumice-stone.

Fullers' Earth

This cleansing agent may be purchased at the druggist's. It is a soft,
light-brown marl, and not expensive. It is a most useful article in the
household. It does not injure the material on which it is used, is not
poisonous, and it does not give off inflammable gases. The processes of
cleaning fabrics with it are longer than when the volatile agents are used, but
when an absorbent of grease is required it is most satisfactory. It can be
bought in fine powder, as can also French chalk.

TO CLEAN WITH FULLERS' EARTH

Moisten the earth with cold water; lay the article on a clean table, and spread
a thin layer of the paste over the soiled places. Hang the garment in a dry
place for one or

two days, then brush off the dry earth. If there are greasespots on the
garment, the earth that is applied to them should be made quite wet with
turpentine. Brush and press the garment.

TO MAKE SCOURING-BALLS

Make a strong suds of white Castile soap; pour enough of this on half a pound
of fullers, earth to make a fairly stiff paste. Work this into smooth balls
about the size of a small egg, and let them dry.

These balls are sometimes made with a mixture of fullers, earth, ox-gall, soap,
and turpentine. They clean heavy and much-soiled goods more readily than do
those made with the Castile soap-suds and the earth, but they cannot be used on
delicate colors. It will be very little trouble to prepare both kinds.

The scouring-balls may be used in cleaning spots on carpets.

TO CLEAN WITH SCOURING-BALLS

Shake all loose dust from the article to be cleaned. Spread it on a clean table
or board. Sponge the soiled places lightly with a cloth dipped in tepid water.
Go over the soiled fabric with the scouring-ball, rubbing gently and thoroughly
every part of it. When all the soiled surface has been treated, hang the
garment in a dry place for a day or two, then brush the parts treated; they
will be found perfectly clean. As this treatment removes all the surface dirt,
the cleansed places will be of a little lighter shade than those which have not
been treated. It may be necessary to press the garment if it was very dirty and
required a thorough application of the scouring-ball.

HOW TO PUT NEW LININGS IN BOOTS AND SHOES

The kid or other linings in boots and shoes often become soiled or broken
before the boots are half worn, and should be replaced by fresh ones. If the
new linings are not properly fitted and pasted, they become a source of great
discomfort. First cut an exact pattern of the sole of the boot. To do this,
place the boot on a sheet of paper, and draw the outlines of the sole; then cut
the pattern, which keep for future use. If kid is used, purchase, at a
leather-store, one kid skin finished in white. Spread the skin on a board,
finished side up, and lay the pattern on it, and with a pencil draw the
outline. When you have drawn half the number of linings required, turn the
pattern over and draw the other half; this will give you rights and lefts. Be
careful, in outlining the soles, to place the pattern so as to give as little
waste material as possible. Cut the leather with a sharppointed knife,
following the pencil lines. One skin will make enough linings to last one
person for years.

Make a paste with half a teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a tablespoonful
of cold water. Pour on this enough boiling water to make a thin paste (about
three tablespoonfuls). Tear the old linings out of the boot, then wipe
thoroughly to be sure there are no particles of dust or lint adhering to the
boot. Cover the wrong side of the lining with a thin layer of paste. Nearly
double the lining, paste side in, and slip into the boot, unfolding it as it
passes in place. See that it fits smoothly everywhere. Pass the hand gently
over it, pressing lightly until the surface is perfectly smooth. Then go all
over the surface with a piece of soft cloth, using a good deal of pressure. The
boots should stand at least twelve hours to dry. If these directions are
followed to the letter, the lining will fit and adhere perfectly.

TO CLEAN COMBS AND BRUSHES

Put enough water in a wash-bowl to reach the backs of the brushes, but not to
flow over them. To each quart of water add one tablespoonful of borax. Free the
brushes from dust, and place them, bristles down, in the water. Let them soak
about ten minutes, then sop them up and down in the water until the bristles
look clean. Rinse in plenty of clean cold water, and dry in a current of air.

Ammonia may be substituted for the borax; but as it softens the finish on the
wooden backs of the brushes, it must be used with care.

Silver brushes may be immersed in the ammonia or borax water.

Heat and moisture dissolve the glue used to fasten the bristles to the back;
therefore brushes of any kind should not be soaked for too long a time, and
never in hot water. Never dry them in great heat.

Wash the combs in borax or ammonia water, rinse in cold water, and wipe dry.
Combs should not be soaked or left wet.

TO CLEAN COAT COLLARS

Wet the soiled place with turpentine, and let it rest for ten or more minutes,
then wet again. Scrape off the loosened dirt. Wet once more with the
turpentine, and again scrape off the loose dirt. Continue this until all the
dirt has been removed. In all the work let the scraping be very gentle, that
the fabric may not be injured. Then sponge with a clean cloth and turpentine,
and wipe until dry. The final sponging may be with alcohol or chloroform. These
two substances evaporate quickly and leave a fresher-looking surface than when
the cleaning is finished with turpentine. »

AIDS IN DARNING LARGE HOLES

Baste a piece of thin net over the hole, and darn in the usual manner. The mesh
of the net makes a groundwork for the threads. Old veils and bits of worn lace
are well adapted for this work.

HOW TO REVIVE AND STRAIGHTEN WHALEBONE

Soak the bent bone in warm water until it is pliable; then press it with a warm
iron.

TO PREVENT STAINS SHOWING THROUGH WHITE-
WASH OR PAPER

Before beginning to paper or whitewash, examine walls and ceiling, and if there
are any dark spots, cover them with a coat of shellac.

TO PREVENT THE CORNERS OF RUGS FROM CURLING

Sew some stiff material like buckram or haircloth on the under side of the
corners.

HOW TO HEAT INFLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES

An inflammable substance like alcohol, rum, turpentine, etc., should always be
heated in a water-bath and watched carefully. Alcohol, rum, or whisky, when
required for friction, should be put in a bottle. Place the bottle in a
saucepan of cold water, and set on the range. By the time the water boils the
liquid in the bottle will be hot. Keep the bottle in the hot water while the
liquid is being used. In heating turpentine, place the vessel which contains it
in a pan of hot water. Watch this while on the fire, as it gives off
inflammable gases. It is not often necessary to heat turpentine to a high
temperature.

PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN IN CLEANING

The pail in which the water for cleaning is put must always have a paper placed
under it, whether it rest on floor, carpet, or other support.

Oil-bottles or other receptacles must be placed on several folds of paper or
cloth, or on a plate or tray. Bottles in which there are acids, alcohol, or
other cleaning substances, when in use, must always have paper placed under
them.

Soaps must always rest in a dish of some kind.

Cleaning-cloths must not be dropped carelessly anywhere; they should, if wet,
be placed on paper.

When using any caustic substance, like lye, washing-soda, ammonia, the greatest
care must be exercised that not a drop is spilled on paint or varnish; and if
such an accident should occur, immediately use plenty of water on the spot, or
pour on oil.

If alcohol is spilled on varnish, wash with water immediately, or pour on oil.
Be careful not to spill an acid on marble; but should this happen, pour on
water, and wash off quickly.

In dusting or moving pictures, care should be used not to rub or handle roughly
gilt frames. Oil-paintings must be dusted in the lightest and most careful
manner, and should always be carefully covered before sweeping.

Be careful that all cloths and brushes are put away clean and dry, so that when
needed they shall be in readiness.

Do not use strong acids or alkalis on the metals connected with plumbing.

FRAMES FOR DRESS-WAISTS AND MEN'S CLOTHING

Cut the hoops of a small barrel (the size known as halfbarrels) in two parts.
Wind folds of cambric or cotton on these, and fasten smoothly and firmly at the
ends.

Tie a strong cord in the middle of each frame. Make a generous loop by which
the frame can be hung on the hooks.

The advantages of these frames are that, while they support the garment
perfectly, they are so free from sharp lines that they do not leave their
impress upon it. Their cheapness and lightness make it possible to have as many
as one may desire, and a few can be packed with ease for use when one is
traveling.

When one is cramped for room, as is so often the case in a flat or
boarding-house, a rack made to fit a curtained space, as an unused door, will
be found invaluable. Have a planed board about five inches wide and the length
of the space it

is to fill. Screw the desired number of hooks into this; on the top fasten two
large screw-eyes (Fig. 52). Fasten two strong hooks in the wall or door, and
hang the board, by the screw-eyes, on these.

The advantage of this rack is that it can be hung where one could not put in
nails or hooks. It may be made so long that it will utilize all the space. The
expense is almost nothing; the hooks and a piece of a dry-goods box will
answer.

CONVENIENT CLOTHES-RACK

[graphic][ocr errors]

To protect the garments from dust, tack an old sheet over the wall before the
rack is put up.

STEEL WOOL AND STEEL SHAVINGS

In European countries, where polished floors are the rule, steel shavings are
used to clean off the floors when they become very much stained. In this
country steel shavings or wool is used in rubbing down woodwork in interior
finishes, but not much on floors. However, when properly used, this substance
is a great aid in removing unsightly stains, or in making rough spots smooth.
The American article is known as steel wool, and the imported article as steel
shavings. The very coarse should be used on coarse floors, and the finer grade
on fine floors. It may generally be found at painters, supply-shops.

INSECTS AND VERMIN

The housekeeper must always be on guard against the many enemies of foods,
fabrics, materials, and personal comfort, which find entrance into the house in
the form of insects and larger vermin. No place is exempt from these pests, but
if one lives in a detached house it is a comparatively easy matter to keep it
free from them. The dwellers in apartment and block houses are liable to
invasion from the neighboring apartments. Water- and steam-pipes add to the
ease with which water-bugs, cockroaches, etc., find their way through all parts
of a building. Unscreened doors and windows admit flies, mosquitos, moths, etc.
Rats and mice find their way into cellars and walls in the most unaccountable
manner.

Absolute cleanliness and eternal vigilance are the price of freedom from these
troublesome visitors. There are methods of exterminating all these plagues;
but, when possible, the preventives should be employed. If, however, the
housekeeper finds that any kind of vermin has found lodgment in her premises,
she should use immediate and vigorous measures to exterminate them, using the
cleanest, surest, and safest remedies that she is acquainted with. There are
some manufactured articles on the market that will clean a house thoroughly of
all insects, if used faithfully. The housekeeper may also employ successfully
many substances with which she is familiar.

Naphtha, properly used, is one of the cleanest, easiest, and most effective
remedies; but it must be used with intelligence and care. None but responsible,
careful people should ever be allowed to employ this agent. The danger is from
an inflammable gas which it gives off. If the work is done in a room where the
windows are wide open, and there is neither light nor fire, there is not the
slightest danger.

In attempting to exterminate any sort of insects by the use of naphtha, it must
be remembered that the infested places must be saturated with the naphtha, and
also that this only kills the living animal, not the eggs. After the first
application of naphtha, wait three or four days, and saturate the places a
second time; this will kill any life that may have developed from the eggs.
When naphtha has been used in this manner, the windows of the room should be
left open for several hours.

Water-bugs.—Pour a weak solution of turpentine into the pipes once a week for a
few weeks, and the bugs will cease to make their visits. Use half a pint of
turpentine to three pints of water. The turpentine will drive the bugs from
their hiding-place, and they should be killed when they are seen. The remedies
that will exterminate cockroaches will, as a rule, exterminate water-bugs also.
The preparations that one buys for cockroaches are generally effective for
water-bugs and ants.

Cockroaches.—One of the methods of drawing cockroaches into the house is to
leave kitchen garbage standing about for hours. The greatest care should be
exercised to destroy or remove all garbage as soon as the dishes are washedKeep
all food covered; keep all corners and crevices clean and dry. There are
several methods of exterminating the roaches.

1. Blow insect-powder into all the cracks from which the pests come. In a few
hours brush up the dead insects and powder, and burn them. Fill all cracks and
holes with a second dose of powder. After a few hours brush up and burn powder
and roaches. Then spread powdered borax about the cracks and holes.

2. Make a strong solution of carbolic acid, —two tablespoonfuls of the acid to
a pint of water,—and force this solution into all the cracks and openings. The
odor of the carbolic lasts for several days; one may, however, be comforted
with the knowledge that nothing can be cleaner or more effective. It may
require several applications of the solution.

3. Dissolve one pound of alum in three pints of hot water, and force the hot
solution into the cracks and openings. Afterward spread borax about the places
where the roaches have been in the habit of appearing.

Ants.—To exterminate ants, use the hot solution of alum or the carbolic
solution as for cockroaches. Or pour oil of pennyroyal on a large piece of
cotton-batting; tear this into small bits, and spread them about the places
where the ants appear. The odor is very strong and lasting. With the removal of
the cotton it soon disappears.

When the fresh pennyroyal can be procured, spread the leaves about the infested
places.

Bedbugs.—l. The quickest, cleanest, and surest method of exterminating this
pest is by the use of naphtha. Open all the windows in the room. Shake and
examine all the bedding. Hang out sheets, blankets, etc. Saturate the
mattresses and pillows with naphtha, and put them out of doors, if possible.
Brush the walls of the room, not leaving a particle of dust in crack, groove,
or corner. Sweep the floor or carpet, if there is one. Take the bedstead apart,
and lay the parts on the floor, the grooved sides up. Saturate all the joints
and grooves with naphtha. Wet the carpet with the naphtha. If there are any
cracks or breaks in walls or floor, fill them with naphtha. Then leave the
room, locking the door, that no one may enter until all the gas has passed off.
A few hours will answer, but where naphtha is used in large quantities, it is
safer to keep the windows open and the door shut the greater part of the day.

This application of naphtha will kill all the living insects that it comes in
contact with, but not the eggs. In three or four days repeat the operation, and
there will be no more trouble, unless the insects are in the wall, where the
naphtha cannot reach them.

Caution: Remember that there is great danger if fire or light is allowed in the
room while the work is being done, or for hours after, while the inflammable
gas is in the room. On the other hand, there is not a particle of danger if
these directions are carefully followed. The advantage of the naphtha over all
other remedies is that it is not injurious to any finish, fabric, or color. It
leaves everything cleaner than at the beginning of the process. The work is
quickly and easily done, and the odor passes off quickly.

2. Clean the room as for the naphtha process. If there is a carpet, remove the
tacks, then blow insect-powder all over it. Fold it from both sides toward the
middle, and powder the parts that are folded over. Fold both ends toward the
middle, and powder again. Roll the carpet up, powdering the under part as it
comes to the top. By following these directions, every part of the carpet will
be covered with the

powder. Let the carpet lie rolled up in this manner for a day; then have it
beaten and brushed.

Spray the mattress and pillows with the powder. Take the bedstead apart as for
the naphtha process; wash it with a strong solution of carbolic acid, pouring
the solution into the grooves and joints. Wash the base-boards and floor with
the carbolic solution, spraying cracks and joints with it. Let the windows
stand open all day. The odor of the carbolic will last for some time, but it is
clean.

If there is a strong objection to the odor of carbolic, the insect-powder may
be used instead. It may require two applications of either powder or carbolic.
Old powder is not effective.

Examine the picture-moldings; they are generally made of the soft white woods
in which these insects thrive.

Moths and Buffalo-bugs.—The naphtha treatment as for bedbugs will exterminate
moths and buffalo-bugs. It must be remembered that all the eggs must be removed
by brushing and shaking before the naphtha is applied; or, if not, treat the
articles to a second dose of naphtha after three or four days.

Frequent thorough brushings, beatings, and airings will keep furnishings and
garments free from these destructive insects.

If closets are washed in the spring and fall with a weak solution of carbolic
acid, one may be reasonably sure that they will be free from insects.

Kill every moth-miller found flying in the house. Should you find the minutest
colony of moths or buffalo-bugs in a piece of furniture or fabric, do not cast
them to the four winds to prey upon your neighbors. Take the article into the
laundry or a vacant room, and saturate it with naphtha; then put it out of
doors, if you please; the moths will be beyond doing any further harm.

Flies and Mosquitos.—Of course, if good screens are on doors and windows there
will be little trouble with either flies or mosquitos.

Open the windows. Put some insect-powder on an old plate; set fire to it, and
place on an inverted tin pan in the middle of the room. Close the door. The
smoke will drive the flies and mosquitos out of the room.

Eats and Mice. —If these vermin get into the house, the safest method of
removing them is by the trap. Have all the holes filled in this manner:
sprinkle chloride of lime in the hole, then fill in with broken glass, and
finally seal with mortar or plaster of Paris. Bait the traps with meat; it is
much more effective than cheese. If there must be delay in filling the holes,
give them a generous dose of the chloride of lime.

THERMOMETERS IN THE KITCHEN

If it were possible to use the thermometer freely in all culinary operations,
the science of cookery would be very much simplified; but there are many
obstacles in the way. The ordinary thermometer is very fragile, and must be
used with the greatest care, and in the various dishes which are being prepared
at the same time it would be impossible to use the instrument freely. The glass
is liable to break when exposed to extremes of temperature. Many attempts have
been made to produce a satisfactory oven-thermometer, but, so far as I know,
the only successful one is based on the principle of the expansion and
contraction of metals. This thermometer has an indicator like the face and
hands of a clock, and is fitted into an opening in the oven door. While this
thermometer does not indicate the temperature to a nicety, like mercury, it is
accurate enough for all practical purposes. The trouble with a mercury
thermometer is that when exposed continuously to a high temperature the mercury
does not fall back easily, and sometimes refuses to do so at any temperature. A
thermometer that is used in cooking should be incased in copper. They may be
purchased or ordered at any chemical supply-store.

In using a thermometer great care is necessary to protect the bulb from
cracking or breaking. Always heat and cool it gradually. A thermometer, when
plunged into a hot liquid, or when taken from a hot bath and exposed to cold
air, is liable to break. The bulb must never rest on the bottom of a stew-pan.
Be careful not to hit or jar it. Immediately after using, it should be wiped
dry and carefully put away.

THE MELTING-POINT OF SOME METALS AND ALLOYS

Many household utensils are often exposed to too high a temperature, because of
ignorance of the melting-point of the metal or alloy from which they are made.
With the exception of iron and steel, but few pure metals are used in the
manufacture of household articles, the greater number of metal articles being
made with alloys.

Many alloys melt at a much lower temperature than any one of the metals which
enter into their combination. The following tables of the melting-point of a
few of the metals and alloys will illustrate this fact.

Copper

Zinc

Antimony

Lead

Bismuth

Tin

1 part tin, 25 parts lead

4 parts tin, 1 part lead

2 parts tin, 2 parts lead, 1 part bismuth .

5 parts tin, 3 parts lead, 3 parts bismuth .

[ocr errors]
[ocr errors]

Britannia is made from tin, copper, and antimony in varying proportions,
depending upon the quality of the product. If we were to estimate the
melting-point of this alloy by that of the metals that enter into its
composition, we should place it high; but we all know by experience that the
melting-point is very low, so we are careful not to expose utensils made from
this metal to a temperature much above the boiling-point of water (212°).

In using utensils made from alloys of all kinds, the liability to melt at a low
temperature must always be kept in mind, that the article may not be softened
and gotten out of shape, or, worse still, injured beyond repair.

THE MELTING-POINT OF SOME FATS AND SUGAR

When a bottle of olive-oil standing in a temperature of 75° or 76° looks a
little thick or is necked with undissolved particles, it is an indication that
it has been adulterated with an oil that melts at a higher temperature.

When butter holds its shape at a temperature above 95°, it is an indication
that it has been adulterated with some fat, like suet, that melts at a
temperature above 95°.

When dry sugar is exposed to a temperature of 320° it begins to melt; when the
temperature reaches 400° the sugar passes to the caramel stage, and from that
to the dark, bitter substance known as burnt sugar.

[ocr errors][merged small][ocr errors]

BACTERIOLOGY

This wonderful science has developed so rapidly that it is almost impossible to
realize that comparatively little was known about it twenty years ago. Through
this science have been found means of preventing and arresting disease and
decay in animal and vegetable life, and a knowledge of it is very important to
the housekeeper, that she may protect her family and belongings against the
ravages of the destructive bacteria. So many wild and absurd statements have
been made by those who have only a superficial knowledge of the subject that
the result has been to frighten some people and disgust others. There is no
cause for either, and certainly it is criminal not to inform one's self on a
subject that has such a power over our lives.

The amount of knowledge on the subject necessary for the housekeeper is not
difficult to acquire. There are several books written upon it that come within
the comprehension of the most unscientific mind. "The Story of Bacteria," by T.
Mitchell Prudden, and "The Story of Germ Life," by Professor H. W. Conn, are
small books written in such a simple, clear style that they are within the
understanding of a child, and no housekeeper should fail to include them in her
library. The information they contain is presented in such an attractive form
that it should mean, in the future, better conditions for the health and
happiness of the home. "The Principles of Bacteriology," by A. C. Abbott, is
also a useful book for those desiring to study more of the subject. A book
which is intended for the farm and dairy, "The Principles of Modern Dairy
Practice," by Gosta Grotenfelt, translated by F. W. Woll, is full of
information for the housekeeper. It is very clearly and simply written, and is
a most interesting book.

A few things which the housekeeper should keep in mind,

INDEX

Absorption, removing grease from
fabric by, 307
removing grease from wood by, 311
removing ink by, 302
Accounts, household, 350
Acid, action of, on marble, 65
carbolic, 96, 343, 345
carbon dioxide, action of, on lime,
31

carbonic, action of, in batters and

doughs, 253
carbonic, how and when liberated,

254

carbonic, proportion in air, 57
carbonic, source of, 253
effect of, on brass and copper, 68
muriatic, 304

nitric, used as a test for impuri-
ties in water, 34

oxalic, solution of, 332

oxalic, to remove stains from floor
with, 319

stains, to remove, 308

to neutralize, when spilled on mar-
ble, 65

used in cleaning plumbing, 95
Aids in darning, 308
Air, a force in making batters and
doughs light, 253
cold, regulating supply in furnace,
138

contaminated, causes disease, 58
current of, under fire causes com-
bustion, 143
current of, over fire retards com-
bustion, 144

danger of contamination, 57
definition of pure, 57
flowing over or under fire, effects
of, 145

free circulation of, through fuel,
144

fresh, for furnace, 138

pure, method of obtaining, in the

house, 56
to test purity of, 331
Air-box, 137,138
necessity of supply of pure air in,

138

Air-bubbles, in student lamp, 130
Aitchbone, 176
Alabaster, to clean, 328
Albumin, effect of temperature
on, 234

property of coagulation of, 234
test to show effect of heat on, 236
Albuminous compounds, impera-
tive necessity for, 259
food, 227

matter, where found, 234
matter, tendency to fermentation

and putrefaction, 236
substances, cooking of, 235

Alcohol, 74
dissolves gums, 310
dissolves varnishes, 307
removes stains, 291, 305
solvent power of, 291
stains on wood finishes, 310
when spilled on varnish, what to
do, 310, 339

Alimentary canal, 225

Alkaline solutions, how to neu-
tralize, VO
Alkalis, effect on white boards, 311
how to test action of, 70
most commonly used in the house-
hold, 70

soda for cleaning iron and steel, 90
soda and borax in the laundry, 99
what to do when alkaline mixtures
are spilled on painted or var-
nished surfaces, 71, 339
Alloys, melting-point of some, 347
Alum, 334

Ammonia, 65, 70, 99, 103, 108,

318, 321, 337, 339
Animal, minor parts of the, 192

feet, 192

heads, 193

hearts, 193

kidneys, 193

livers, 193

sweetbreads, 194

tongues, 193

tripe, 193
Announcing meals, 162
Anthracite coal, 134,135

how to manage, 141
Ants, 343

Appliances, ironing, arrangement

of, 120
lighting, care of, 126
proper, for working in the pantry,

165

used in polishing floors, 275
Artichoke, 259
Ash, 264

Ashes, absorb heat, 145
for cleaning, 87

removing from flues and pans, 145
Asparagus, 259.

Back yards, 93

Bacon fat, 233

Bacteria, 349

Bacteriology, 349

Baking batters and doughs,

general rule for, 255
Balls, scouring, 335
Basin, stationary, 23

Basswood, 266
Bastard, 264
Batters, 253, 255

and eggs, how and why they should
be beaten, 255, 256
Beans, 245

green, 259
Bed-blankets, 44, 105
Bedrooms, best kind of light for, 41

best floor for, 41

how to furnish, 41

method of ventilating in cold wea-
ther, 56

Beds, desirability of single, 41
how to make, 44

how they can be made absolutely

comfortable, 42
importance of well-made, 44
kind of mattresses for, 42
kind and size of coverings, 43
length of, 43
length of sheets, 43

Bed-springs, 45

Beef. See Marketing.

Beets, 257

Benzene, 293

Benzole, 294

Bile, 226

Bins, for fuel, 9

Bismarck brown, 281

Bituminous coal, 134, 135, 146

Black, aniline, 281

Black spots on wood, to remove,
311, 319

Black walnut, to stain wood, 281

Blankets, the advantage of light
wool, 44
the best way to press, 106
how to remove spots from, 105
when and how to wash, 105

Block-tin, care of, 78

Blood stains, 301, 305

Boiled meats, 240

Boiling albuminous substan-
ces, 238

Boots, how to put new linings in,

336

Borax, 99, 103, 104,105,108, 109,
110, 112, 115, 134, 137

Braizing meats, 240
Brass, cleaning substances, to se-
lect, 69

effect of acids on, 68

effect of dampness on, 70

to clean, 68

to clean with an acid and salt, 69
to clean with sal-soda and an acid,
69

trimmings of furniture, to polish,
328
Bread, 164

the ideal, 244
Breakfast, preparation for, 162

table, 151
Bricks, 18
Britannia, 49

care of, 78
Broiling meats, 240
Bronzes, to clean, 328
Brush, weighted, care of, 276

weighted, how to use, 275

weighted, how to clean, 276
Brushes, hair, how to clean, 337
Buffalo-bugs, 345
Building, materials used in, 17
Burning-points of fats, 231
Burns, lime-water and oil for, 329
Butter, 199, 231, 234

to clarify, 231

to sweeten rancid, 234

melting-point of, 348

Cabbage, 250, 259
Candle-grease, 307
Carbohydrates, 224
Carbolic acid, how to dissolve, 331
how it may be used to advantage,
331

in cleaning clothes-closets, 345
used in exterminating insects, 345
Carbon compounds, 223, 224
Carbonic-acid gas, sources of,
253

when and how liberated, 254
Care of cellar, 90
of dining-room, 75
of dishes, 163
of fats, 232

of floors in kitchen and pantry, 80
of furnace fires, 136
of kitchen and pantries, 79
of kitchen utensils, 82
of lamps, 127
of lighting appliances, 126
of natural-wood finishes, 73
of outside doors, 73
of plumbing, 93
of range, 140
of refrigerator, 88
of the tea-kettle, 87
of window-sashes, 74
Carpet-cleaning, 64
Carpets, cutting for register, 314
matting, to lay, 314
method of laying, 313
tendency of oil-cloths and linoleum
to stretch, 316
Carrots, 247, 250
Carve, beef, roast ribs, to, 207
beef, rolled ribs, to, 207
beef, round, to, 208
beef, sirloin roast, to, 206
birds, small, to, 219
chicken, broiled, to, 216
chicken, roast, to, 216
cod,s head and shoulders, to, 220
duck, roast, to, 217, 218
fish, small, to, 219
bluefish, to, 220
chicken halibut, to, 220
flatfish, to, 220
flounder, to, 220
haddock, to, 220
halibut, to, 220
plaice, to, 220
salmon, to, 220
swordfish, to, 220
fowl, boiled, to, 216
goose, roast, to, 218
grouse, roast, to, 219
ham, to, 211

lamb, fore quarter, to, 210
lamb, hind quarter, to, 209
lamb, leg, to, 209
mutton, fore quarter, to, 209
mutton, haunch, to, 209
mutton, leg, to, 207, 208

mutton, loin, to, 209

mutton, saddle, to, 208

mutton, shoulder, to, 209

partridge, to, 219

pig, roast, to, 213

pigeons, to, 219

pork, loin, to, 211

pork, spare rib, to, 211

ptarmigan, to, 219

tongue, to, 212

turkey, to, 214

veal, breast, to, 210

veal, fillet of, to, 211

veal, loin of, to, 210

veal, neck, to, 211

veal, shoulder, to, 211

venison, haunch, to, 212

venison, fore quarter, to, 212

venison, leg, to, 212

venison, loin, to, 212

venison, shoulder, to, 212
Carver, advantages of studying il-
lustrations to the, 203
Carver,s chair, 205
Carving, art of, 202

cutting across the grain, 203

fish, general rules for, 219

how a joint or a fowl should be
left for a second serving, 205

knife, best way to sharpen, 204

pleasure of, 202

reason for giving four illustrations
of shoulder of mutton, 203
Casein, 224

Cash accounts, why best, 350

Castor-oil, 297

Casts, plaster, how to clean, 327

plaster, how to mend, 326

plaster, how to oil, 328

plaster, how to stain, 327

plaster, how to wax, 327
Cauliflower, 259
Celery, 259
Cellar, care of, 90

condition of, 1

drainage of, 1, 6

floors, 1, 7

lighting and ventilation, 8
method of cleaning, 90

screens for, 91
use of, 8
walls, 1

windows, when they should be open,
91

Cereals, 241, 243, 244, 259, 263
high temperature develops the
flavor of, 252
Chalk, French, 307
Charcoal, 26

Checks and drafts, 140-144

how to manage, 142

what they are and how they work,
144
Cheese, 259

Chemicals, careless use of, on

finished surfaces, 70
in cookery, 254
in the laundry, 99
their effects on certain materials,

70

to neutralize when employed- in

removing stains, 300
valuable in the removal of stains,

300

Cherry, to stain wood, 281

Chestnut (see Woods), 263

Chicken, 216

Chimneys, 1
height of, 22
lamp, cleaning of, 130

China, appearance of,when properly
washed, 78
care not to crack the glaze, 77
gilt on, should not be subject to

strong alkalis, 78
method of washing, 77
sorting before washing, 78
why it should not be piled together
while warm, 77

Chloride of lime, 26, 309, 329

Chloroform, 307

Chocolate stains, 307

Clean, alabaster, to, 328
brass, to, 68

brass trimmings of furniture, to,

328

bronzes, to, 328
brushes, to, 337
carpet, to, 64

coat collars, to, 337

combs and brushes, to, 337

copper, to, 68

draperies, to, 64

enamel finish, to, 72

fireplaces and grates, to, 64

floors with petroleum, to, 274

furniture, to, 65

furniture leather, to, 65

marble, to, 65

marbles, small, to, 328

painted woodwork, to, 70

plaster casts, to, 327

registers, to, 64

room, to, 63

rugs, to, 64

silver, to, 75

tiles, to, 65

tin, to, 86

windows, to, 67
Cleaning, with fullers' earth, 334

with scouring-balls, 335

precautions to be taken in, 339
Clinkers, to remove, 147
Clock, kitchen, 48
Closet, for preserves, 10

for wraps, etc., 16
Closets, earth, 25

for brooms, brushes, and cleaning
appliances, 16

location of, 11

woods used in, 20
Cloth of gold, 214
Clothes (see Laundry), 98

rack, 340
Clothing, frame for, 340
Cloths, for polishing floors, how to
wash, 277

polishing, receptacles for, 277
Coal, anthracite, 134

anthracite, how to manage, 141

bituminous, 134, 135, 146

putting in cellar, 133

red ash, 135

size of, 135

slaty deposit in, 135

white ash, 135
Cockroaches, 343

Cocoa stains, 307
Coffee, 257

pot, care of, 88
stains, 307
Cold-air box, 137

location of, 138

importance of, and why supply of
air should be pure, 138
Collar, coat, to clean, 337
Color, for curtains (see Laundry),
110

Colored cotton articles (see

Laundry), 106
Colors, ground in oil, 323

ground in powder, 323
Comb-grain (see Woods), 264
Combs and brushes, to clean,

337

Combustion, how to regulate, in
range, 144
spontaneous, 298
Connective tissue, 173, 238
Cooking of albuminous substances,
principles underlying the, 234
effect on vegetables of over-cook-
ing, 249
effect on lean meat, 236
effect of, in closed vessels, 257
fats, 229
fish, 240
fruits, 227

importance of proper method of,

225
meats, 238

necessity of an outlet for escape
of gases in, 238

of starchy foods, principles under-
lying the, 242

vegetables, 241, 246

vegetables, a few definite rules
for, 249

vegetables, secret of success in,
250

Copper, effect of acid on, 68
effect of dampness on, 70
to clean, 69

selection of cleaning substances

for, 69
utensils, 54

Copperas, 97
Corn, 176, 259
Corned meats, 186
Cctton-seed oil, 296
Cracked surfaces on wood fin-
ishes, to restore, 73
Cracklings, 214
Cucumbers, 257
Curtains, washing of, 110

Daily routine of household

work, 61
Dampers, effect of opening, 143
how managed, 142
smoke, 143
use of, 142
Darning, aids in, 338
Dents in wood, method of remov-
ing, 282

Deodorizing cooking utensils,

87

Dextrine, 224, 225, 241
Digestion, conditions favorable
and unfavorable to, 227

brief outline of process of, 226

of starch, 227
Dining-room, 11

care of, 75

furnishing, 37
Dinner, giving, fashion in, 156

proper succession of courses in a,
156

a successful, 155

table, 152
Dishes, cause of breakage, 14

preparation for washing, 163

rules for the waitress to observe
in washing, 165
Division of income, 350
Doors, care of outside, 73

location of, 11
Doughs, 253, 255
Drafts, 137

what they are, 143
Drainage and earth-closets in coun-
try houses, 25

of cellar, 6
Draining-shelves, 14

Drains, construction of, for liquid

refuse, 26
Draperies, 64

Dressers, kitchen, illustration of,
17, 18

Dry and cracked surfaces on
wood finishes, to restore, 73

Drying loosely woven woolen
articles, 104

Duck, to carve, 217

Dust-mop (see Yacht-mop), 207,
277

Earth, as a purifier, 26, 28

closets, 26

fullers', 307, 334

fullers', to clean with, 334

fullers', to make scouring-balls
with, 335
Earthenware, 50, 51

tendency to absorb fats, 54

yellow, 54
Economies, suggestions as to lit-
tle, 260

Economy in food, the true, 258
Effect of cooking in ventilated
and unventilated vessels,

257

Egg-plant, 259

Eggs, 198,199, 226, 235, 236, 255,
256, 259

how and why they are beaten, 255,
256

illustration of effect of tempera-
ture on, 236

to test, 199
Enameled cloth for tables and
shelves, 79

ware, 49

ware, grades of, 53
ware, how made, 53
ware, qualities necessary in, 53
Encaustic No. 1, 332
No. 2, 333

No. 2 for removing ink stains from
wood finishes, 204
Entertaining, ceremonious, 154
Ether, 307

Exercise, effect on muscles, 173

Fads and common sense in

foods, 260
Fasciculi, 173
Fats, 229-234, 338
belong to the hydrocarbon group,

224

burning-point of, 231
care of, 232

effect of cooking on, 230
how to clarify, 233
how to determine temperature of,
232

how to use various kitchen, 233

importance of temperature at
which they are cooked, 229

melting-point of, 348

temperature of, for frying, 232
Felt pads for furniture, 278

for polishing, 285

to fasten on furniture, 278
Fibers, muscular, 173

effect of different degrees of heat
on, 173

structure of, 173

ultimate, 173
Fibrils, 173
Fibrin, 236

of the blood, coagulation of, 235
Filler, for ash, 318

for dark wood, 317

for light wood, 317

for walnut, 318
Fillers for wood, what they are

and why used, 317
Finish of walls, woodwork,

and celling, 4
Finishes, wood, treatment of, 279,
281

Fire, anthracite coal, how to man-
age, 141
depth of bed of coal, 146
furnace, care of, 136
grate, 146

how to care for, when ironing, 120
how to manage dampers and

checks, 142
how checks work, 144
range, to make, 141
to regulate combustion of, 144

to regulate temperature, 145

to prevent burning to a white

heat, 145
wood, to prepare for broiling, 146
Fireplaces, 64

Fish, general remarks on serving
(see Carving), 219
general principles underlying cook-
ing of, 240
quality, indications of, in (see Mar-
keting), 197
Flannels (see Laundry), 202
Flat-irons, how to clean, 123
how to remove rust from, 124
Flavors and odors, developed by
heat, 257
reason why all should not be re-
tained, 257
Flesh-formers, 224
Floor-coverings, some points on

laying, 312
Floors, advice of an expert in re-
gard to, 265
appliances used in polishing, 275
cellar, 1, 7

cleaning with petroleum, 274
cloths for cleaning, how to wash,
277

composition of fillers, and object

of, 317
cracks in, to fill, 318
daily care of, 270
effect of water on, 269
felt pads on furniture to protect

polished, 278
finishing, filling, and staining of,

316

general directions for oiling, 273

hard-wood, 268

how to apply the filler to, 316

how to prepare fillers for, 317

how to oil piazza, 278

how to remove old paint and var-
nish from, 318

how to rub down to absolute
smoothness, 316

importance of condition of, 322

kitchen, hall, pantry, and stairs, 14

laying and finishing, 19, 266

linoleum, care of, 82
materials for care of, 333
method of applying wax to, 271
necessity for proper treatment of,
270

oiled, in kitchen and pantry, care
of, 80

painted or varnished, care of, 81
polished, 267

removal of grease-spots from, 311
rift wood in, 19

sanitary value of polished, 268
stained, to wax, 273
stains, to remove, from, 271
to clean and wax at the same time,
272

waxed, treatment of, 270

waxing, preparing for, 271

weekly care of, 270

white board, care of, 82
Flour, how to test, 200
Flues of range, keeping clean, 140

ventilating, in kitchen, 14
Food, general rule for certain
methods of cooking vegetables,
250

materials, manipulation of, 252
materials, market and nutritive

value of, 223
tables to aid in arranging daily

menus, 259
vegetable fruits and flowers, 241
vegetables containing little or no

starch, table of, 259
Foods, albumin in, 255
albumin, coagulation of, in, 234
albumin in relation to gastric

juice, 227
albuminous, effect of temperature

on, 235

albuminous matter in, tendency to
fermentation and putrefaction
of, 236

albuminous substances in lean

meat, 235
albuminous substances, principles

underlying the cooking of, 234
apples, 198
apricots, 228

batters, 253

batters, effect of varied tempera-
tures on, 255
batters, general rules for baking,

255

beans, 245, 259
beets, 259
blackberries, 228
braizing, 240
bread, ideal, 244

brief outline of process of diges-
tion, 226
broiling, 240

broiling, boiling, roasting, albumi-
nous, 238
burning-point of fats, 231
butter, 231

butter, how to clarify, 231

butter, to sweeten rancid, 234

carbohydrates, 224

carbon compounds, 223, 224

cereals, 241, 243, 244, 252, 259

corn, 243

corn, Indian, 243

corn-starch, 243

cranberries, 228

currants, 228

digestion, conditions favorable and
unfavorable for, 227, 243

digestion of starch, 227

doughs, effect of varied tempera-
ture on, 255

doughs, general rule for baking,
255

drippings, 231

economy in, 258

effect of cooking in closed or in

ventilated vessels, 257
effect on digestion of manner of

serving and eating, 225
eggs, 198, 235, 236
eggs, how to test, 199
eggs, when used to thicken and not

to lighten an article, 256
fads and common sense, 260
fats, 229

fats, burning-point of some, 231
fats, effect of water on tempera-
ture of, 230

fats, importance of temperature at

which they are cooked, 229
flavors of coffee and soups, lost by

lowered temperature, 257
flavors and odors, developed by

heat, 256, 257.
flour, how to test, 200
for growth and repair, table of, 259
fruits, dried, in cooking, proportion

of water to, 229
fruits, fresh, effect of, on digestive

organs, 228
fruits, method of cooking dried, 228
fruits, nutritive value of, 227
fruits, a few points in regard to,

228

fruits, quantity of sugar, and its

effect on, 228
frying, 240
gooseberries, 228
goose-grease, 231
hydrocarbons, 224
lard, 231

legumes, their nutritive value, 245
legumes, method of cooking, 245
mineral, 225

nitrogenous compounds, 223
nitrogenous substances, 224
object of, 222, 295
olive-oil, 231
peaches, 228
pears, 228
pease, 245, 247
potatoes, boiled, 251
principles, general division of, 223
proper combination of food prin-
ciples, 258
prunes, 229
quinces, 228
raspberries, 228
receptacles for, 54
rice, boiled, 251
starch, 241

starch, effect of cooking on, 242
starch, digestibility of, 243
starch, what is necessary in cook-
ing it, 242
stewing, 240
strawberries, 228

suggestions as to little economies
in, 260

that produce heat and force, table

of, 259
tubers, 241

vegetables, to blanch, 247

vegetables, fresh, necessary con-
dition before cooking, 249

vegetables, fresh, care not to over-
or under-cook, 249

vegetables, green, 246

vegetables, general rule for certain
methods of cooking, 250

vegetables, fresh, how the French
cook them, 246

vegetables, a plea for more atten-
tion to their preparation, 249

vegetables, boiled potatoes, 251

vegetables, sautered, 247

vegetable substances, principles
underlying the cooking of, 241

vegetables that do not contain
starch, 241

vegetables, tuberous, 246

vegetables, varying composition of,
241

Foundation of house, 4, 5
Frames, picture, to mend, 326
for dress-waists and men,s clothing,
340

Freezing, effect of, on meat, 192
Fruit, 227-229
knives, 158

stains, to remove, with fumes of
sulphur, 306

when best, and how preserved, 228
Frying, 240
Fuel and fires, 133

kinds of, 134

placing of bins for, 9

preparation of cellar for coal, 133

time to buy, 133

wood, 135
Fullers, earth, 311, 334

to clean with, 335

scouring-balls of, 335
Furnace, cleaning of flues and
pipes, 136

construction of, 136

fire in cold weather, 137
fire, renewing the, 137
fire-pot, 136

fresh air necessary for, 138

method of starting fire in, 136
Furnishing the bedroom, 40

the dining-room, 37

essentials in, 35

the hall, 36

the kitchen, 46

the laundry, 122

the library, 37

the living-room, 38

the parlor, 39
Furniture, carvings, to clean, 286

"cleaner and polisher," receipt for,
332

finish, faded or cracked, on, to re-
store, 286
leather, to clean, 65
materials for care of, 333
upholstered, to clean, 65
varnished surfaces of, to clean, 286
wax for polishing, 333
waxed surfaces of, to clean, 287

Galvanized iron, 55
Game and poultry, 195
Game-birds, 195
Garbage, 91

method of disposing of, 92
Garnishing, 205
Gas, carbonic-acid, proportion of, in
air, 57

carbonic-acid, source of, 253
coal, from stove or furnace, 139
drop-light, care of, 126
fixtures, care of, 127
laws of expansion and contraction,
57

leaks in pipes, 127
meters and stopcocks, 127
noxious, conditions which cause

formation of, 6
nitrogen, proportion in air, 57
oxygen, proportion in air, 57
precautions to be taken before

turning on, 2

range, 47
sewer, 24
Gas-burners and keys, care of,
126

Gasolene, 294

Gastric juice, 226, 227

Georgia pine, 263

Glass, care of, 76
cut, care of, 77
cut, use of sawdust for, 77
danger of scratches on, 77

Glue, how to make, 326

Gluing, conditions necessary for
success in, 325
furniture and other articles, 325

Granite-ware, 49, 51, 53

Grate fires, 146

Grease, how to prevent spreading
on a fabric, 308
in sink-pipes, 94
to remove from marble, 66
to remove from matting, 67
spots, several methods of remov-
ing, 307

spots, to remove from wood, 311
wheel, to remove stains of, 309

Green stains, 305

Groceries, 200
care of, 200

Guests, selection of, 155

Ham, to carve, 211
Ham fat, 233

Hanging clothes out to dry, 117
Heart-wood, 262
Heat, circulation of, in oven, 142,143
effects of different degrees on

muscular fiber, 173
and force, table of foods that will

produce, 159
inflammable substances, how to,
338

white, to prevent coals from burn-
ing up to, 145
Hip, or thick sirloin, 179
Hip-bone, 175, 176
Home, some of the essentials of,
1,9

Hostess, 155

House, colors in interior finish of,
20

general plan of the, 10
interior finish of the, 20
outline of what is needed in the,
10

selecting the, 1

situation and foundation of the,
1,5

skeleton and circulatory system
of, 4

some suggestions for people build-
ing their own, 3
Household accounts, 350
refuse, 91

work, daily routine of, 61
Hydrocarbons, 224

Income, division of, 350
Inflammable substances, how

to heat, 338
Ink stains, 301-304, 311
Insects and vermin, 341
Interior finish, yearly polishing

of, 74
Iodine stains, 305
Iron, how to remove rust from, 124

galvanized, 55
Ironing, arrangement of appliances
for, 120
folding clothes for the, 118
folding clothes after the, 122
how to care for fire when, 120
how table-linen should be ironed,
121

motion of the iron in, 121

preparing for, 119

what to do till the irons are hot, 124
Iron-rust, 90, 306
Irons, how to clean, 123

why very hot for rawstarch, 116
Ironware, 49

advantages of, 54

to remove rust from, 90
Ivory-handled knives, care of,
76

Javelle water, how to make, 330
in the laundry, 99, 304

Kerosene, 73, 132, 291, 292

washing with, 109
Keys loose in gas fixtures, 126
Kidneys, 175, 193
Kitchen, furnishing of, 46

utensils, care of, 79, 82

varnished and oiled woodwork in,
care of, 80
Kitchen and pantries, care of, 79

plan of, 12
Knives, care of handles, 76

carving, how to sharpen, 204

fruit, 151

to polish steel, 78

to remove spots from ivory handles,
76

to remove rust from, 79

Lamb (see Marketing and Carving),
190, 209

Lamp-burners, care of, 129

Lamp-chimneys, cleaning of, 129

Lamps, 127
cleaning, method of, 129
consideration in purchasing, 128
daily care of, 129
essentials of a clear light, 128
how to light and extinguish, 129
how to regulate light, 131
necessary appliances for cleaning,

129
student, 127

student, bubbles of air in, 130
what causes explosions in, 132
when carrying from place to place,
129

Lamp-wicks, 128

Lard, melting-point of, 348 i
Laundry,98
blankets, when and how to wash,
105

blankets, how to remove spots

from, 105
blankets, best way to press, 106
care of, 123
chemicals used in, 98
color for curtains, 110
colored cotton articles, to launder,

106

colored cotton articles, how to wash

with starch, 107
curtains, how to launder, 110
embroideries and colored silks, how

to launder, 109
flannels, 102

flannels, colored, how to wash, 104
flannels, method of washing, 103
folding clothes for ironing, 118
folding clothes after ironing, 122
hanging clothes out to dry, 117
how the clothes should be washed,
100

how the clothes should be scalded,
101

importance of rinsing, 101
laundress, importance of caring for

health of the, 124
mending before washing, 100
necessary furniture for, 122
necessity for absolute cleanliness

in, 123

silk undergarments, how to laun-
der, 108

sorting the clothes for washing,
100

starch, boiled, 113

starch, boiled, how it should be

used, 116
starch, boiled, No. 1, very stiff, 113
starch, boiled, No. 2, moderately

stiff, 114
starch, boiled, No. 3, less stiff, 114
starch, boiled, No. 4, not very stiff,

suitable for skirts and dresses,

114

starch, boiled, No. 5, very thin, for

table-linen, etc., 114
starch, bluing in, 115
starch, borax in, 112
starch, gum-arabic, 112
starch, method of making, 114
starch, method of making, for

washing colored goods, 107
starch, raw, 112

starch, raw, rule for making, 115
starch, reasons for ironing raw-
starched articles very damp, 115
starch, rice, 112

starch, turpentine in, 102
starching, some points on, 111
stiffening with gelatin, 113
summary of preparation for wash-
ing, 101

summary of method of washing

flannels, 104
water, bluing, to prepare, 102
water, to prepare, for soaking the

clothes, 100
wringer, a few words about, 122
Lawns, protection of, when putting

in coal, 134
Lease of house, 2
Leather furniture, 65
Leg of mutton, time of cooking,
239

Legumes, 241, 244, 245
Lentils, 259
Lettuce, 247, 250
Library, 11

furnishing the, 37
Lighting appliances, care of, 127

oil-lamps, 127

some facts in regard to petroleum,
131

to test safety of oil, 132
Lime and oil, for removing rust from
iron and steel, 79, 89
and potash, how to prepare for

floors, 319
and sal-soda, how to prepare for
floors, 319
Lime-water, how to make, 329
used as an anti-acid tonic, 329
to test purity of the air of a room

with, 329
and oil for burns, 329
to soften hard water with, 329
for whitening boards on which a
strong alkali has been used, 329
Linoleum, 79, 315
Linseed-oll, 73,180,273,278,290,
291

Liquid soda, how to make and use,
330
stains, 321
Locust-wood, 263
Luncheon-table, 152

Mahogany, 265

color, to produce on wood, 181
stain, dark, 323
stain, light, 324
Manipulation of food mate-
rials, 252
Marble, action of acids on, 65
difficulty of removing stains from,
66

how to neutralize acids when

spilled on, 65
how to remove acid or grease-spots
from, 66
Marbles, small, to clean, 328
Marketing, aim of chapter on, 168
advantages to the carver of a
study of Figs. 14, 15, and 16,
176

aitchbone, 176, 178

anatomy of animals, importance

of a knowledge of, 169
animals, minor parts of, 192
animals, muscular flesh of, 191
apples, 198

ball-and-socket joint, 176

beef, aitchbone, 176, 178

beef, bowler piece, 178

beef, brisket, 172, 183

beef, brisket, thick end of, 178,

183, 186
beef, carcass, how divided, 172
beef, Chicago dressed, 170
beef, chuck ribs, 178, 180
beef, corned, 176, 185, 186
beef, cross-rib piece, 178, 180
beef, cutting, New York method of,

182

beef, explanation of Fig. 10, 175

beef, flat-bone steak, 176

beef, flank, 181

beef, fillet, 185

beef, fillet-false, 185

beef, fore quarter, 172

beef, hind quarter, 172

beef, indications of good, 172

beef, indications of poor, 172

beef, leg of, 183

beef, loin of, 77

beef, navel piece, 182, 183

beef, ox, skeleton, 174

beef, plate piece, 182, 186

beef, portions suitable for roasting

and broiling, 179
beef, portions suitable for boiling,

braizing, stewing, alamode, and

also cheap roasts and steaks,

180

beef, portions suitable for slow
cooking, such as stewing, braiz-
ing, boiling, soups, etc., 181
beef, porterhouse, 176, 179, 184
beef, porterhouse steak, 176, 183
beef, porterhouse or loin, bones of,
174

beef, porterhouse or loin, direction
of muscles, in Fig. 14, 177

beef, porterhouse or loin, Fig. 18,
182

beef, first quality, includes portions
suitable for roasting and broil-
ing, 179

beef, second quality, includes por-
tions suitable for boiling, braiz-
ing, stewing, alamode, and also
cheap roasts and steaks, 180

beef, third quality, includes por-
tions suitable for slow cooking,
such as braizing, boiling, stew-
ing, soups, etc., 181

beef, quality of, depends on age
and food, 170, 171

beef, rattle-ran, 182

beef, ribs, cross-rib piece, 172,178,
180 182

beef, ribs, 175, 180, 182, 185

beef, ribs, location of bones in, Fig.
10, 174

beef, ribs, direction in which mus-
cles run, Fig. 14, 177
beef, ribs, rolled, 180
beef, round, 180
beef, rump, 176
beef, rump piece, 176, 186
beef, rump, back of, 181
beef, shin, 183
beef, shoulder, 172, 183
beef, shoulder-blade, 178
beef, shoulder clod, 178

beef, side, New York method of

cutting, 182
beef, side, interior of, 169, 181
beef, side, outline of, 169, 182
beef, sirloin, 176, 206
beef, sirloin steak, how cut in

New York, 184
beef, sirloin, thick, or hip, 174,176,

179, 184

beef, sirloin, first, second, third

cuts of, 174, 179
beef, sirloin, top of, 184
beef, skeleton of, showing location

of bones in various cuts, 174
beef, skirt of, 182
beef, stall-fed, 171
beef, sternum, 178
beef, tenderloin of, 175, 179, 181,

184, 185

beef, why cut into more joints than

any other animal, 172
beefsteak, flat-bone, 176,183,184,

185

beefsteak, Hamburg, 180, 183
beefsteak, hip-bone, 176, 183,
184

beefsteak, porterhouse, 176, 179,

183, 184
beefsteak, rib, 183
beefsteak, round, 180, 183
beefsteak, round-bone, 176, 183,

184, 185
beefsteak, short, 179, 183
beefsteak, shoulder, 183
beefsteak, sirloin, Fig. 19, 176,

179, 183, 184
beefsteak, tenderloin, 184
beefsteaks, 183
beefsteaks, cross-ribs, 183
beefsteaks, Delmonico, 183, 184
beefsteaks, entre-cote, 183, 185
butchers, meat, why the house-
keeper should have a clear
knowledge of, 168
butter, 199

danger of attempting to learn too

much at once, 169
ducks, 196

effect of the age, the breed, and

the feeding of the animal on the
quality of the meat, 171
effect of exercise on meat, 170,171,
173

effect of freezing on meat, 192

eggs, 198

eggs, to test, 199

explanation of Fig. 10 (skeleton of

ox), 174, 175, 179, 183
explanation of Figs. 15 and 16,

176, 179
explanation of Fig. 14, 177-181
explanation of Fig. 17, 179, 180
explanation of Fig. 18, 179, 180,

182

explanation of Fig. 19 (method of

cutting sirloin steaks), 184
explanation of Fig. 20, 184
explanation of Fig. 21, 185
explanation of Fig. 22, 185
explanation of Fig. 23, 185
explanation of Fig. 24, 188, 189
fasciculi, 173
feet, the, of animals, 192
fiber, muscular, 173
fibrils, 173
fish, 197

fore quarter of an animal, why it
is less tender than the hind, 178

fore quarter of beef, mutton, lamb,
etc., how to learn position of
muscles, 178

game, 195

groceries, 200

heads, 193

hearts, 193

hip-bone, 176

kidneys, 175, 192

lamb, 190

lamb, best age for, 190
lamb, how divided, 190
liver, 193

mature and immature animals, dif-
ference in quality of flesh of,
170, 191

meats, effect of humid atmosphere
on, 192

method of studying marketing, 169
milk, 199

minor parts of the animal, what
they are, and the precautions to
be taken in purchasing them,
192

muscles, advantage to marketer
and carver of a knowledge of
location of, 178

muscles, importance of cutting
across the grain of, 175

muscles in fore quarter of an ani-
mal, how to learn direction of,
178

muscles in hind quarter of an ani-
mal, how to learn direction of,
176

muscles, structure of, 173
muscles, to study arrangement and

location of, Fig. 14, 178
muscular covering of skeleton, 178
muscular fiber, arrangement in

bundles, 173
muscular fiber, effect of different

degrees of heat on, 173
muscular fiber, structure of, 173
muscular fibers, 172
muscular flesh of animals, effect of

freezing on, 192
muscular flesh of animals, effect

of rigor mortis on, 191
muscular flesh of animals, some

characteristics of, 191
muscular system, 172
muscular system, illustration of,

177
mutton, 187

mutton, best age for, 188

mutton, breast, 190

mutton chops, 188

mutton chops, French, 188

mutton cutlets, 190

mutton, fore quarter of, 189, 209

mutton, haunch of, 188, 209

mutton, indications of good, 188

mutton, leg of, 189, 190

mutton, loin of, 190

mutton, must be well ripened, 188

mutton, neck of, 189

mutton, rack of, 188

mutton, ribs, 190

24

mutton, saddle of, 188, 208
mutton, shoulder of, 189, 209
mutton, various cuts of, 188
necessity for frequent visits to the

market, 168
ox, 170
pork, 190

pork, indications of good, 191
pork, indications of poor, 191
pork, most desirable parts for

roasting and chops, 190
pork, necessity for care in select-
ing, 191

pork, necessity for thorough cook-
ing, 191
poultry, 195

poultry, drawn and undrawn, 195
poultry, dry-picked and scalded,
196

poultry, tests of good, 196

poultry, kinds for various methods
of cooking, 196

qualities, division of beef into vari-
ous, 179

quality, first, 179

quality, second, 180

quality, third, 181

rigor mortis, 191

skeleton, of ox, 174

sternum, 178

supplies,general,purchase and care

of, 197
sweetbreads, 194
texture, color, and odor of meats

and fish, one should becomefamil-

iar with, 169
tongue, 193
tripe, 193
ultimate fiber, 173
veal, 186

veal, age and feeding, 186
veal, breast of, 187
veal chops, 187
veal cutlets, 187
veal, flank of, 187
veal, fillet of, 187
veal, how the calf is divided, 186
veal, how the French produce
prime, 186

real, indications of good, 186

veal, knuckle of, 187

veal, leg of, 187

veal, loin of, 187

veal, piece for fricandeau, 187

veal, shoulder of, 187

vegetables, green, 198

vegetables, winter, 198

wbirl-bone, 176
Mastication, necessity for, 226
Materials, food, manipulation of,
252

used in building, 17
Matting, mats of Canton and Japa-
nese, 315
to clean, 67
to lay, 314

to remove grease or oil from, 67
to remove moisture from, 67
Mattresses, coverings for, 45
kinds of, 42

protection and care of, 45
Meals, 162-164
Meats, 239
to boil, broil, braize, roast, stew,
and fry, 239, 240
Melting-point, to judge purity of

some fats by, 348
Melting-points of some metals

and alloys, 347
Menus, tables of food substances
to help in arranging the daily,
259

Metals, effect of temperature on
different, 49
melting-points of some, 347
of plumbing, strong acids or alkalis
on the, 339
Mice, 346

Mildew stains, 309
Milk, 199, 200, 234, 258, 259
illustrations of effect of tempera-
ture on, 235
Mineral foods, 225
Mistress, personality of, 150

and maid, 161
Moisture, warmth and dirt favor-
able to the development of bac-
teria, 350

changed to steam expands in great
heat, and helps to lighten doughs
and batters, 253
Mop, dust (see Yachi-mop), 277
Mosquitos, 346
Moths, 345
Muriatic acid, 304

Naphtha, 132, 290, 293
danger from, and how it can be

used safely, 344
used to destroy insects and vermin,

342

used to exterminate bedbugs, 343
Neutralize, acid stains, how to, 301
the action of alkalis, how to, 300
when chemicals are used to remove
stains, how to, 300
Neutralizing spots on boards
that have been cleaned with
oxalic acid, before staining with
an alkali, 320
Nitric acid, 34

Nitrogenous compounds, 223
Nitrogenous substances, 224
Nuts, 259

Oak, 265

stain, 324

stain, antique, 323, 324

stain, very light, 324

to color wood, 281
Ocher, yellow, 281
Odors and flavors, 256, 257

foods that absorb them readily,
200

Oil-cloth, 79, 315

Oiling floors, general directions for,
273

painted floors, linoleum, etc., 274
piazza floors, 278
wood, secret of success in, 274
Oils, an important element in home
economics, 288
benzene, 293
benzole, 294
castor, 297
classes of, 288
cleaning, 292

cod-liver, 297
cotton-seed, 296

cotton-seed, melting-point of, 348
drying and non-drying, 290
effect of alcohol on, 291
essential qualities in lubricating,
292

fat and essential, 289
fixed and volatile, 289
gasolene, 294

kerosene, 73, 132, 291, 292
kerosene, to test safety of, 132
kerosene, used to dissolve gummy

substances, 292
kerosene, washing with, 109
knowledge of their action and ap-
plication necessary, 288
linseed, boiled, 73, 290
linseed, cold-drawn, 290
lubricating, 291

minerals mixed with fixed, to re-
tard spontaneous combustion,
299

naphtha, 293

non-drying, effect of oxygen on,

295
olive, 295

olive, melting-point of, 348
olive, when chilled to the freezing-
point, 296
paraffin, 291

petroleum, danger from benzin in,
132

petroleum, some facts in regard to,
131

plaster casts, to, 328
preparations of, for furniture, 73,
286

preservative of wood, a, 278
some characteristics of cleaning,
292

spirits of turpentine, 293
their use and behavior, 288
used to neutralize alkalis and alco-
hol, 70

when absorbed by porous sub-
stances, spontaneous combustion
of, 298
Outbuildings, 93

Oven, how to regulate heat in, 145

Ox, skeleton of, 174

Oxalic acid, for ink stains, 311

for water stains, 311

solution of, 332
Ox-gall, 307
Oxygen, 57, 60, 295, 298

Pads, how to make, for wood finish-
ing, 283
Paint and varnish, 70
cleaning, 70

how affected by wet alkalis, 70
how to clean with whiting, 72
or varnish, action of chemicals on,
70

stains, action of alcohol and tur-
pentine on, 307
to remove from wood, 318
treatment of enamel finishes, 72
what causes streaks on, 72
when cleaning, avoid use of strong
soaps or alkalis, 71
Painting, conditions for durability,
19

exterior of houae, 19
Palates, 194
Pancreatic gland, 194

juice, 226
Pantries, 15

and china-closet, 14

and china-closet, plan of, 15

care of, 79

care of varnished and oiled wood-
work in, 80
daily care of, 80
setting in order, 163
Pantry, cold, plan of, 16
Paper, blotting, as an absorbent,
307

to prevent stain showing through,
338

wall, colors which give an air of
warmth or coolness to a room,
21

Paraffin, 291

oil, 73, 280, 283, 284, 286, 291
Parsnips, 250, 259
Pease, 245, 257, 259

Pennyroyal, to drive away ants,
343

Permanganate of potash, 33,97,

320

Petroleum, cleaning floors with,
274

crude, on floors, 268

danger of benzin in, 132

in its natural state, 131

in lamps, important points in care
of, 132

products of crude, 132

purifying, 132

to test safety of, 132
Pewter, 49

care of, 78
Picture-frames, to mend, 326
Pigments, 322
Pillows, kind and size of, 43
Pine, yellow, hard, soft, white,

265

Pipes, care in placing, 22

chimney and furnace, 22

corrugated roof, 19

danger of lead, 30

flushing the water-closet, 93

hot-air, 23

overflow, 24

soil, 24

steam, 22
Pitch stains, 309
Plan of work, to aid inexperienced

housekeeper, 62
Plaster casts, how to clean, 327

how to mend, 326

how to oil, 328

how to stain, 327

how to wax, 327
Plates, hot and cold, 164
Plumbing, 4, 23

care of, 92

chemicals used in disinfecting, 96,
97

danger from linty cloths and hair

to, 97
horizontal piping, 23
how to disinfect, 92
to prepare potash for, 95
to prepare soda for, 95

to protect pipes when using chem-
icals, 95
stationary basins, 93
Points to decide, before begin-
ning to stain a floor, 322
Polish, brass trimmings on furni-
ture, to, 328
method of restoring, to wood, 284
on woods, to clean and restore, 283
Polisher and cleaner for f urni =

ture, receipt for, 332
Polishing, yearly, of interior finish,
74

wax for woodwork, 333
of woodwork, 74

woods, how to make rubber for,
283
Poplar, 264

Pork (see Marketing), 190
Porterhouse roast and steak

(see Marketing), 176

Posts, how the ends may be pro-
tected when sunk into the
ground, 263

Potash, 95, 318
and soda, how to dissolve, 319

Potassium permanganate, 96,
320

Potatoes, boiled, 251
Poultry (see Marketing), 195
Proteid, 224

Putty, for cracks in floors, how to
make, 318

Quality in meats, 171
Quartered woods, 264

Rabbit, 195

Rack, for clothing, 340

for saucepan covers, 55
Range, 46

care of, 140
coal, 140

fire, how to manage anthracite

coal, 141
flues, keeping clear, 140
gas, 47

knowledge of drafts and checks of,
140

necessary qualifications of a good,
47

polishing, 140
Rats, 346

Receptacles, for food, 54

for polishing-cloths, 277
Refrigerator, 55

method of cleaning, 88

situation of, 88
Refuse, household, method of dis-
posing of, 91, 92
Registers, care of, 64
Rice, boiled, 251, 259
Rift (see Woods), 264
Rigor mortis, 191
Rinsing, importance of, 101
Roasting meats, 239
Room, cold, in cellar, 9
Rooms, arrangement of, 11
Routine, daily, of household work,
61

Rubber for polishing furni-
ture, to make, 283
Rugs, 64

for hard-wood floors, 269
to prevent corners from curling,
338

Running colors, to remove stains
of, 305

Rust, iron, stains, to remove, 306

Sago, 259
Saliva, 225, 226
Salmon, 220

Sal-soda, in the laundry, 99

liquid, to make, 330
Sashes, window, care of, 74
Satin wood, 262

Saucepans, rack for covers of, 55
Scorch stains, 309
Scouring-balls, of fullers, earth,

335

to clean with, 335
Screen, for admitting air and ex-
cluding dampness, 56

for cellar windows, 91
Service, table, 148
Sewer-gas traps, 24
Sheets, length of, 43

Shellac, 280, 282
Shoulder-blade, 175
Shoulder clod, 178
Sienna, burnt, 281
raw, 318

Silk undergarments, how to

launder, 108
Silver, cause of tarnishing, 76

injurious treatment of, 76

to clean, 76
Simmering albuminous sub-
stances, 238
Sink, iron, to clean, 89

iron, to remove rust from, 89

iron, regular care of, 90

kitchen, flushing, 93

kitchen, strong solution of soda to
remove grease from pipes of, 94

kitchen, to prepare potash for, 95

kitchen, trouble from liquid grease
in pipes of, 94

kitchen, weekly treatment of, 94
Sirloin, cuts of, 176, 179

thick or hip, 176
Skeleton of an ox, 174,175
Slash (see Woods), 264
Sleep, necessity of healthful, 40
Soaking the clothes before

washing, 99
Soap, how to dissolve, 123
Soft woods, 265
Soil, dangers to health from, 6
Solution of oxalic acid, 332
Soot stains, 305
Sorrel, 250

Sorting the clothes for wash-
ing, 100
Spinach, 259
Spinal column, 181
Spine, 175

Spirits of turpentine, 293
Spontaneous combustion of

oils, when absorbed by porous

substances, 298
Springs, bed, 45

(see Water), 29, 30
Spruce (see Woods), 264, 266
Squash, 259
Squirrels, 175

Stain, mahogany, dark, 323
mahogany, light, 324
oak, 324

oak, antique, 323, 324

oak, very light, 324

points on mixing, 322

walnut, 323
Staining, things important to re-
member in, 325
Staining floors, 322

with ammonia, 321 .

with chemicals, 320

with nitric acid, 321

with potash, 320

with potassium permanganate, 320
with sal-soda, 318
Stains, acid, 308
alcohol, on wood finish, 310
alkali, 309

amount required for one hundred

square feet, 324
black, on wood, 311
blood, 301, 305
cherry, 324
chocolate, 307
cocoa, 307
coffee, 307

first treatment of, 300
fruit, 306
grease, 305, 307

grease, method of removing from

delicate fabrics, 308
grease, to prevent from spreading

on fabric, 308
grease, to remove by absorption

and an alkali, 311
grease, wheel, 309
green, 305

how color or shade should pre-
dominate, 324
ink, 301

ink, to remove by absorption, 302
ink, to remove with Javelle water,
304

ink, to remove with lemon, 302
ink, to remove with lemon-juice

and salt, 303
ink, to remove with milk and water,

302

ink, to remove with muriatic acid,
304

ink, to remove with oxalic acid, 303
ink, to remove with oxalic acid and

cream of tartar, 303
ink, to remove with red ink, 304
ink, to remove with turpentine, 304
ink, to remove from wood finishes,

311
iodine, 305
iron rust, 306
light, 323
liquid, 321

made from colors ground in oil,

323

made from colors in powder, 323
on marble, difficulty of removing,
66

method of applying to floors, 321
mildew, 309
paint, 307
pitch, 309

removed before washing, 100
roughness and stains made by

heat on wood finishes, 310
from running colors, 305
scorch, 309
soot, 305
tar, 309
tea, 307

to prevent showing through white-
wash and paper, 338

value of chemicals when properly
used in removing, 300

varnish, 307

vaseline, 305

water, to remove from wood, 311

wheel-grease, 309

white, on wood finishes, 332

wine, 307

on wood, 310

on wood finishes, 310

for woods, 320
Staircases, back and front, 12
Starch, 227, 241-243

bluing in, 115

boiled, method of making, 114
boiled, No. 1, very stiff, 113
boiled, No. 2, moderately stiff, 114

boiled, No. 3, less stiff, 114
boiled, No. 4, not very stiff, for

dresses and skirts, 114
boiled, No. 5, very thin, for table

linen, etc., 114
colored articles, when and how to,

107

digestion of, 227, 243
gum-arabic, to make, 112
raw, rules for making, 115
rice, 112

some points on, 111
stiffening with gelatin, 113
turpentine in, 112
vegetables containing little or no,
259

Starched articles, how to secure

the greatest ease in ironing, 114
Starching, how boiled starch should

be used, 116
reason for ironing raw-starched

articles very damp, 115
Steel knives, to keep from rusting,

79

shavings, 341

to remove rust from, 90

wool, 341
Stewing meats, 240
Stoneware, 50, 52

tendency to absorb fats, 54
Stove, gas, 14

heating, management of fire of,
139

showing direction of waves of heat
when smoke-damper is opened,
142

showing direction of waves of heat
when smoke-damper is closed,
143

Suet, melting-point of, 348
Sugar, melting-point of, 348
Sulphur fumes, to remove fruit

stains, 306
Summary, of method of airing
house, 59
of method of cleaning and restor-
ing furniture, 285
of method of cleaning and restor-
ing polish on woods, 283

of method of cleaning and waxing

at the same time, 272
of method of daily care of kitchen

utensils, 84
of daily program, 62
of general directions for oiling

floor, 274
of method of preparing and stain-
ing floor, 322
of method of preparation for

washing, 101
of method of washing flannels, 104
Sunny exposure for house, 2
Sunshine for cellar, 8
Supplies, general, purchasing and

care of, 197
Sweeping and dusting, general

directions for, 63
Sweetbreads, 194
Synopsis of method of serving
a dinner, 157

Table, 49

breakfast, the, 151

dinner, the, 152

etiquette, some points on, 158

of foods that produce heat and

force, 259
of foods necessary for growth and

repair, 259
general arrangement of the, 150
linen, how ironed, 121
linen, quality of, 149
linen, when it requires starch, 121
luncheon, the, 152
to protect from hot dishes, 166
service, 148

service, attitude at table, 158
service, ceremonious entertaining,
154

service, ceremonious dinner, 156
service, dishes should not be piled

one upon another, 154
service, evidences of true hospital-
ity, 154

service, how waitress should serve
dishes, 153

service, hostess with but one ser-
vant, 155

service, importance of little things,
160

service, plates, hot and cold, 164
service, position of knife, fork, and
spoon when one has finished, 154
service, pouring tea and coffee, 160
service, ceremonious occasions, 149
tea, 152

of vegetables containing little or

no starch, 259
waiting on, 153
ware, care of, 75
ware, care of china, 77
ware, danger of soap on gilt china,

78

ware, glass, 76

ware, how the dish-towels should
be held in wiping, 79

ware, silver, 75
Tapioca, 259
Tar stains, 309
Tea-kettle, care of, 87
Tea-pot, care of, 88
Tea stains, 307

Temperature, when foods in a
liquid bath or in air, difference
in constancy of the, 240
at which various fats burn, 231
high, develops flavor in cereals,
252

of fats, how to determine, 232
of the house, to regulate, 56
of water, importance of, in washing
flannels, 103
Tendons, 178, 238
Tests for impurities in water,
33

Thermometers in the kitchen,

346

Thymus gland, 194

Tiles, how to clean and polish, 66

in kitchen, 13
Tin, block, 53

cleaning with sand, 53

utensils, how made, 52

utensils, list of, 50

ware, 49
Tissue, connective, 173
Tomatoes, 241

Tongue, 193, 212
Toothpicks, 161
Traps, and their uses, 23

sewer-gas, 24
Trimmings, brass, on furniture, to

polish, 328
Tripoli, 73, 283, 289
Tubers, 241
Turkey, 214
Turnips, 250

Turpentine, 73, 271, 293, 307
to remove ink stains, 304

Ultimate fibers, 173
Umber, 281
Utensils, kitchen, 48

Britannia, 49

care of kitchen, 82

coffee-pots, 88

copper, 54

to deodorize cooking, 87
earthen, list of, 51
earthenware, 50

effect of acids, soda, and fats on

iron, 85
general rule for care of, 84
granite or enameled ware, 49
iron, 49
iron, list of, 51
iron, treatment of, 85
methods of cleaning, 83
miscellaneous, list of, 52
necessary in the kitchen, 48
pewter, 49

qualifications necessary in cooking,

49
steel, 49
stone, list of, 52
stoneware, 50

tea-kettle, cause of rust in, 87

tea-pots, 88

tin, list of, 50

tinware, 49

wooden, list of, 51

wooden, proper care of, 86

woodenware, 50

Varnish, stained floors, to, 321
stains, 307

Vaseline stains, 305
Veal (see Marketing), 186
Vegetable substances, principles

underlying cooking of, 241
Vegetables, a plea for more atten-
tion to preparation of, 249
effects of over-cooking on, 249
four general classes of, 241
fresh, care not to over- or under-
cook, 249
fresh, necessary conditions before

cooking, 249
fruit and flowers, 241
general rule for certain methods of

cooking, 250
green, 246

green, how to keep fresh, 198

how to blanch, 247

how the French cook them, 246

leguminous, 245

potatoes, boiled, 251

rice, boiled, 251

sautered, 247

secret of success in cooking, 250
tuberous, 246

which contain little or no starch,
259

winter, 198
Venison, 195, 212
Ventilation, 55

disease produced by breathing im-
pure air, 58

how to ventilate the kitchen, 59

how to ventilate the sleeping
rooms, 59

ill effect of breathing air in badly
ventilated rooms, 57

importance of airing dining-room,
157

of soil-pipes, 24

plan for daily airing of the house, 59
symptoms which follow breathing

impure air, 58
under woodwork that comes near
the soil, 19
Vermin and insects, 341
Vertebrae, 175

Vestibule and entrance-hall, 12
Volatile oils, 293

Waitress, announcing meals, 162
duties of, 161

how she shall serve dishes, 153
mode of speaking to, 159
personal appearance and dress of,
161

regular duties of, 162

what she is responsible for, 165
Wall-papers, 21
Walls, advantage of thick, 3

background for pictures, 21

brushing, 63

finish of, 4, 21

of house, 1, 7

of house to protect, when putting
in coal, 133

of kitchen, 13
Walnut (see Wood), 265

stain, 323
Washing (see Laundry), 100
Water, advantage of, in removing
stains, 300

bluing, for rinsing clothes, 102

bugs, 342

inorganic matter in, 29
Javelle, how to make, 330
Javelle, for stains, 304
lime, how to make, 329
lime, some uses of, 329
methods of softening and purify-
ing, 30
necessity for pure, 27
pipes, 1, 5, 30
pollution of, 28, 29
to purify by coagulation, 32
removing temporary hardness, 32
removing permanent hardness, 32
seal, 24

solvent power of, 28
sources, of organic pollution in,
29

standard of purity, 27
supply, 1, 27

temporary and permanent hard-
ness, 31

Wax, for polishing furniture, 333
method of applying to floors, 271
Waxed floors, 270
Waxing, preparing for, 271

Wells, depth of, 30

situation of, 29 Whalebone, how to revive and

straighten, 338 Wheel-grease stains, 309 Whirl-bone, 176 Whitewash, to prevent
stains

from showing through, 338 Whiting, to clean paint with, 72 and linseed-oil
worked together

to make putty, 318 Wicks, lamp, 128 Windows, 11 cellar, when they should be
opened,

91

how to wash, 67

location of, 14
Window-sashes, care of, 74
Wine stains, 307
Wood, action of resin on, 263

ash, 264

bass, 266

bastard, 264

cause of decay in, 18

cedar, 263

chestnut, 263

used in closets, kind of, 20
comb-grain, 264
conditions destructive to, 263
direction in which it shrinks, 264
used in doors and sashes, quality

of, 19
fillers, 317

finishes, alcoholic stains on, 310 finishes, ink stains, to remove from, 310

finishes, roughness and stains made by heat on, to remove, 310

used in floors, kind of, 19, 265

Georgia pine, 263

grease, to remove from, 311

grease, to remove from, by absorption and an alkali, 311

hard pine, 265

heart, 262

how to protect, 263

kinds having tendency to warp,

264
locust, 263

log, brief description of, 262
mahogany, 265

manner of growth and cutting,
264

maple, 264, 265, 266
oak, 265

poplar, 263, 264, 266

posts, how to protect, 263

quartered, 264

slash, 264

soft, 265

spruce, 264, 266

stains on, 310

walnut, 265

white pine, 265

vellow pine, 265 Woods, 262

and polished floors, 262

which do not require fillers, 318 Woodwork, 279

care of natural-wood finish, 73

to clean and restore polish on, 283

finishing of interior, 20

in kitchen, 13

list of colors used in restoring finish and color, 281

method of removing dents from, 282

to restore dry or cracked surfaces,

73, 286 to restore finish on, 279 treatment of, finishes, 74 ventilation
between, and soil, 19 yearly polishing of interior, 74 Wool, steel, 341

Work, household, daily routine of, 61

Wringer, clothes, a few words about, 122

[graphic]
[ocr errors]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[graphic]
[merged small][merged small][graphic][merged small]
